𝐂𝐨𝐦𝐦𝐨𝐧 
𝐔𝐧𝐢𝐯𝐞𝐫𝐬𝐢𝐭𝐲 
𝐄𝐧𝐭𝐫𝐚𝐧𝐜𝐞 𝐓𝐞𝐬𝐭 
 
𝐂𝐔𝐄𝐓 (𝐔𝐆) 
𝟐𝟎𝟐𝟓 
🌐 https://cuet.nta.nic.in/  
🌐 https://www.nta.ac.in/
0  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vision 
The right candidates joining best institutions will give India her demographic 
dividend. 
Mission 
To improve equity and quality in education by administering research based 
valid, reliable, efficient, transparent, fair and international level 
assessments. The best subject matter experts, psychometricians and IT  
delivery and security professionals will ensure that the current gaps in  
existing assessment systems are properly identified and bridged. 
 
NTA will create a system which will promote teaching (by teachers),  
learning (by students) and assessment (by parents and institutions). NTA 
strongly believes in quality, efficiency, effectiveness, equity and security of 
assessments. To practice these values, NTA will constantly engage with its 
stakeholders, viz. students, parents, teachers, experts and partner 
institutions.
1  
  
 
CONTENT                                                         PAGE NO. 
List of Abbreviations 4 
Important Information and Dates at a Glance 5-10 
Chapter-1 Introduction 11-12 
1.1 About National Testing Agency (NTA) 11 
1.2 About Central Universities 11 
1.3 About CUET (UG) - 2025  11-12 
1.4 Role of NTA 12 
Chapter-2 Examination Scheme 13 
2.1 Mode of Examination 13 
2.2 Medium of Examination 13 
2.3 Scheme of Examination 13 
2.4 Pattern of Question Paper 13 
2.5 Tests / Subjects covered under CUET (UG) – 2025 13 
2.6 Duration of  Test 13 
Chapter-3 Eligibility 14-15 
3.1 Eligibility 14 
3.2 List of Qualifying Exam 14 
3.3 Year of Appearance in Qualifying Examination 14-15 
Chapter-4 Reservation 16-18 
4.1 Reservations 16 
4.2 Provisions relating to persons with disability 16-17 
4.3 Scribe and Compensatory Time 17-18 
Chapter-5 Choice Of Cities 19 
Chapter-6 Admit Card 20 
Chapter-7 Schedule Of Examination 21 
Chapter-8 Important instructions for the candidates 22-23 
Chapter-9 Unfair means practices and breach of examination rules 24 
9.1 Definition 24 
9.2 Punishment for Using Unfair Means practices 24 
9.3 Cancellation of Result 24
2  
Chapter-10 Barred Items And Dress Code 25 
10.1 Barred Items 25 
10.2 Dress Code 25 
Chapter-11 Display Of Answer Keys Of Challenge 26 
11.1 Display of Answer Key Challenge 26 
11.2 Display of Recorded Responses 26 
Chapter-12 CUET (UG) – 2025 Score And Admissions 27-28 
12.1 Marking Scheme of Examination 27 
12.2 CUET (UG) – 2025  NTA Score 27 
12.3 Re-evaluation/ Re-checking of Result 27 
12.4 Admissions 27-28 
12.5 Use of Scores of CUET (UG) – 2025  by other Organizations 28 
Chapter-13 Miscellaneous  29 
13.1 Correspondence with NTA 29 
13.2 Weeding Out Rules 29 
13.3 Legal Jurisdiction 29 
13.4 RTI 29
3  
 
 
 
APPENDIX 
S. No. Appendix 
No. Particulars Page No. 
1. I List of Central Universities  31-32 
2. II List of Languages/ Domain specific Subjects/ General Aptitude Test 
offered under CUET (UG) – 2025 33-34 
3. III List of Examination Cities for CUET (UG) - 2025  35-42 
4. IV Procedure for Online Payment of Fees and Helpline for Payment-Related 
Queries 43-46 
5. V Computer Based Test (CBT) Guidelines 47-53 
6. VI Procedure to be adopted for compilation of NTA Score for Multi S hifts 
Papers 54-63 
7. VII The Gazette of India notification related to PwD/PwBD candidates 64-66 
8. VIII Certificate for person with specified disability covered under the 
definition of Section 2 (s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 67 
9. IX Letter of Undertaking For Using Own Scribe for PwD/PwBD candidate 68 
10. X Replica of the online Application Form of CUET (UG) – 2025 69-87
4  
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
 
 
CBT Computer Based Test 
CU Central University 
CUET Common University Entrance Test 
EWS Economically Weaker Section 
GOI Government of India 
HEIs Higher Education Institutions 
MCQ Multiple Choice Question 
MoE Ministry of Education 
NDA Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) 
NEGP National e-Governance Plan (NeGP) 
NTA National Testing Agency 
OBC-
NCL Other Backward Classes-Non Creamy Layer 
OCI Overseas Citizen of India 
PwBD Persons with Benchmark Disabilities 
RPwBD The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 
SC Scheduled Castes 
ST Scheduled Tribes 
TPC Test Practice Centre 
UDID Unique Disability ID 
UPI Unified Payment Interface (UPI) 
UR Unreserved 
UT Union Territory
5  
IMPORTANT INFORMATION AND DATES AT A GLANCE 
 
 
Important Dates and Fee Details for Common University Entrance Test (UG) - 2025: 
 
1. Common University Entrance Test (CUET (UG) – 2025) will be conducted in 13 mediums 
across India for admission into the Undergraduate Programmes for all the Central 
Universities (CUs) and participating Universities in India for the academic year 2025-26. 
Online Submission of Application Form 01 March 2025 to 22 March 2025 (upto 11.50 
PM) 
Last date of successful transaction of fee through 
Credit/Debit Card/Net-Banking/UPI 23 March 2025 (upto 11.50 PM) 
Correction in Particulars 24 March 2025 to 26 March 2025 (upto 11.50 
PM) 
Announcement of the City of Examination To be announced later on the website 
Downloading Admit Cards from the NTA website To be announced later on the website 
Date of Examination Between 08 May and 01 June 2025 
(Tentative) 
Display of Recorded Responses and Answer Keys To be announced later on the website 
Website(s) https://cuet.nta.nic.in 
Declaration of Result on the NTA website To be announced later on the website 
 
 
2. Candidates may choose upto a maximum of five (05) subjects including languages and General 
Aptitude Test . F ees will  be calculated based on the number of subjects chosen  by the 
candidates. The following fee structure is applicable for CUET (UG) - 2025: 
 
Category CUET (UG) - 2025 
Up to 03 Subjects For each Additional Subject  
General (UR) ₹ 1000/- ₹ 400/- (each) 
OBC)- (NCL)* / EWS** ₹ 900/- ₹ 375/- (each) 
SC/ST/PwD/PwBD/ Third gender ₹ 800/- ₹ 350/- (each) 
Centres outside India ₹ 4500/- ₹ 1800/- (each) 
 
*Other Backward Classes -Non Creamy Layer as per the central list of Other Backward Classes  available on 
National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), Government of India website  www.ncbc.nic.in. Only the 
candidates falling in this list may mention OBC in the Category Column.  State list OBC candidates who are 
not in OBC-NCL (Central List) must choose General/Unreserved. 
 
**As per the OM No. 20013/01/2018-BC-II dated 17 January 2019, issued by the Ministry of  Social 
Justice and Empowerment and the OM No. 12-4/2019-U1 dated 17.01.2019 of  MHRD Department of 
Higher Education regarding t h e  implementation of reservation for Economically Weaker Section 
(EWS) for admission in Central Educational Institutions.
6  
 
 
 
3. Broad features of CUET (UG) - 2025 are as follows: 
Registration Registration will be online at https://cuet.nta.nic.in  
Total subjects 37 (13 languages + 23 domain-specific subjects + 01 General Aptitude Test).  
Medium 13 Indian languages (Assamese, Bengali, English, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, 
Malayalam, Marathi, Punjabi, Odia, Tamil, Telugu, and Urdu) 
Syllabus 
Language Subjects: Language to be tested through Reading 
Comprehension (based  on different types of passages–Factual, Literary, 
and Narrative), Literary Aptitude and Vocabulary 
Domain Subjects: As per NCERT syllabus  
General Aptitude Test: General Knowledge, Current Affairs, General 
Mental Ability, Numerical Ability, Quantitative Reasoning (Simple 
application of basic mathematical concepts arithmetic/algebra 
geometry/mensuration/statistics), Logical and Analytical Reasoning  
Choice of Test 
Paper 
Candidates may choose upto a maximum of five (05) subjects including 
languages and General Aptitude Test irrespective of the subjects opted in 
class XII.* 
Marking Scheme Correct Answer: 05 marks (Five)  
There will be negative marking for each incorrect answer of  01 (one) mark.  
Mode of the Exam Computer Based Test (CBT) mode 
Total Questions 50 questions for each test papers. All Question are compulsory. 
Duration Duration for each test paper would be 60 minutes 
Shift The examination will be conducted on multiple shifts, depending on the 
number of Candidates and Subject choices. 
*Candidates may select the subjects based on the  eligibility criteria for a programme of a desired university  
 
                  
i. The candidates can see the list of Central Univerties at Appendix-I. 
ii. The list of Languages/Subjects/General Aptitute Test offered under CUET (UG) 2025 
examination is at Appendix-II. 
iii. The list of examination cities where the examination will be held may be seen at 
Appendix-III. 
iv. The fee  can be submitted only online through Net Banking/Credit Card/Debit 
Card/UPI. Processing charges and GST as applicable are chargeable from the 
candidate (in addition to the examination fee) by the concerned Bank/Payment 
Gateway Integrator. For details/procedure, please see Appendix-IV. 
v. In case the confirmation page is not generated, fees may have to be paid once again to 
ensure the successful generation of the confirmation page.  
vi. Candidates must carefully read  the Instructions (including how to fill up the 
Application Form online) given in the Information Bulletin available on the NTA  
Website. Candidates not complying with the instructions shall be summarily 
disqualified. 
vii. Candidates should apply for CUET (UG) - 2025 through the “Online” mode only. The 
Application Form in any other mode shall not be accepted.
7  
viii. Submission of the Application Form should be made by the candidate online through 
the NTA website: https://cuet.nta.nic.in  
 
4. Instructions for filling Online Application Form: 
i. Before starting to fill the application form candidates are advised to read the Prospectus 
displayed on the website of the University/ies where admission is sought and be clear 
about the programmes offered by them, seats available, eligibility as regards age, 
passing/appearing in qualifying exam, minimum marks in the qualifying exam, 
relaxation there of, reservation, admission procedure, subject to be chosen from list of  
UG Programmes available at https://cuet.nta.nic.in/ in CUET etc. before applying for 
the CUET (UG) – 2025. 
ii. NTA will not entertain the corrections sent by the candidate through 
Post/Fax/WhatsApp/E-mail/by Hand. 
iii. Download the Information Bulletin and read carefully to ensure your eligibility. 
 
Step 1: Registration Form: 
Register for the Online Application Form and note down the system- generated 
Application Number. The candidate should supply the required details  while filling 
the Online Application Form and is also required to create a PASSWORD, choose 
Security Question and enter Answer. After  successful submission of the personal 
details, an Application number will be  generated and it will be used to complete the 
remaining steps of the Application  Form and will also be required for all future 
reference/correspondence. For subsequent logins, the candidate will be able to login 
directly with the respective  system-generated Application Number  and created 
Password. 
 
Step 2: Application Form: 
The Candidates can log in with the system -generated Application Number and  pre-
created Password for completing the Application Form including filling up  personal 
details, educational qualification, university/ programme selection, test paper details, 
choosing the Examination  Cities, and uploading the images and documents (if any). 
 
Upload Scanned Images of the Candidate’s Photograph, Signature and PwD/PwBD certificate 
1. Photograph: 
 
i. The candidate will have to upload his/her recent photograph in JPG/JPEG format. The 
recent photograph should be either in colour or black and white with 80% face (without 
mask) visible including ears against a white background. 
ii. The size of the scanned photograph should be between 10 kb to 200 kb (clearly 
visible).  Photograph should be named as ‘ _Photo' and in JPG/JPEG format. 
2. Signature: 
i. The candidate is required to upload his/her scanned copy of signature. The scanned 
signature should be in JPG/JPEG format (clearly legible). 
ii. Signature file should be named as <'first two characters of candidate name'> _Signature' 
and in JPG/JPEG format between 10 kb to 50 kb.
8  
3. PwD/PwBD Certificate: 
 
The candidate has to upload the scanned copy of PwD/PwBD/UDID certificate. The 
scanned copy of PwD/PwBD/UDID certificate (if applicable) should be named as '< first 
two characters of candidate name>_PwDCertificate’ and in pdf format between 50 kb to 300 
kb. 
 
[Note: The Candidate has to upload only his/her own photograph, signature, and PwD  and 
PwBD Certificate wherever applicable, as mentioned above (and not of anybody else) in a 
correct/proper manner. In case, it is found at a ny time in the future that the c andidate has 
used/uploaded the photograph, signature, and certificate(s) of someone else in  his/her 
Application Form, or he/she has tampered with his/her Admit Card/Result/Scorecard, these 
acts of the candidate shall be treated under Unfair Means (UFM) Practices and actions  
would be taken as per the provisions relating to  Unfair Means Practices. 
 
Please check your photograph and signature before submission of the Application Form. In 
case the photograph or signature is blurred or not visible to identify the identity of the 
candidate then, the application will be rejected and no option for correction or revision shall 
be permitted. 
 
Step 3: Fee Payment: 
After completing Step 1 and Step 2, the candidates have to pay the requisite  
examination fee. The fee can be submitted only online through Net Banking,  Credit 
Card, Debit Card, or UPI. Processing charges and GST as applicable are chargeable to 
the candidate (in addition to the examination fee)  by the concerned Bank/Payment 
Gateway Integrator. 
The Confirmation Page of the online Application Form will be generated only  after 
successful payment by the Candidate. In case the Confirmation Page is not  generated 
after payment of the fee, then the candidate may have to approach the  concerned 
Bank/Payment Gateway (in the helpline number and e-mail given in the Information 
Bulletin) to ensure  the successful payment or to obtain  the refund of 
duplicate/multiple payments]. 
Note: No request for refund of fee once remitted by the candidate will be entertained by NTA 
under any circumstances. 
Step 4: Confirmation Page: 
 
a. All 3 Steps can be done together or at separate timings. The submission of the  
Application of a candidate could be considered as successful and his/her 
candidature would be confirmed only on the successful transaction/receipt of the 
prescribed application fee from him/her.  
b. Download, save and print a copy of the Confirmation Page of the Application 
Form (which would be downloadable only after the successful remittance of the 
fee) for future reference.
9  
 
General Instruction to the Candidate: 
i. Candidate shall ensure that the information entered by them in their respective online 
Application Form is correct.  
ii. Information provided by the candidates in their respective online Application Forms, 
like the Name of the Candidate, Contact Details, Address Details, Category, Gender, 
PwBD Status, Educational Qualification Details, Date of Birth, Choice of Exam cities, etc. 
will be treated as final. Any request for change in such particulars will not be considered 
by NTA under any circumstances. 
iii. All candidates must ensure that they have provided the correct e -mail address and 
mobile number. 
iv. Candidates must ensure that their email address and mobile number to be registered in 
their online Application Form are their own, as relevant/important information/ 
communication will be sent by NTA through e -mail on the registered mail address  
and/or through SMS on the registered mobile number only. NTA shall not be 
responsible for any non -communication /miscommunication with a candidate in the  
email address or mobile  number given by  him/her other  than his/her own.  All 
Candidates shall ensure that the information (like his/her name, mother’s name, father’s 
name, gender, date of birth, category, PwBD status, mobile number, e -mail address, 
photograph and signature, choice of cities for exam Centre, etc.) provided by t hem in 
their online Application Form is correct and is their own.  
v. NTA does not edit/modify/alter any information entered by the candidates after 
completion of the application process under any circumstances. Any request for change 
in information thereafter will not be entertained. Therefore, candidates are advised to 
exercise utmost caution before filling up the correct details in the Application Form. 
vi. NTA disclaims any liability that may arise to a candidate(s) due to incorrect information 
provided by him/her in his/her online Application Form. 
vii. Candidates are advised to visit the NTA Website  (www.nta.ac.in) and check their e - 
mails regularly for the latest updates. 
viii. Candidates shall appear at their own cost at the Examination Centre on the date, shift, 
and time indicated on their Admit Cards issued by the NTA in due course through its 
Website. 
 
ix. The entire application process for CUET (UG) - 2025 is online, including uploading of 
scanned images/documents, payment of fees, and printing of Confirmation Page, Admit 
Card, etc. Therefore, candidates are not required to send/submit any document(s) 
including the Confirmation Page to NTA through Post/ Fax/WhatsApp/Email/by 
Hand. 
 
x. Usage of Data and Information:NTA/Government of India can use the data provided by 
the End Users (test taker in this case) for training, research and development, analysis, 
and other permissible purposes (s).
10  
xi. Candidates are advised to fill out only one Application Form and to take utmost care 
while filling out the mobile number and e -mail address. Candidates are also advised to 
use the mobile number and email address that are accessible to them (may be parent/ 
guardian). One mobile number and email address can be used for one Application Form 
only. 
 
 
 
For any queries/ clarifications, candidates can also Email/call at the NTA Helpdesk: 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Email ID cuet-ug@nta.ac.in 
Contact Number 011- 40759000  / 011-69227700
11  
CHAPTER – 1 
INTRODUCTION 
 
1.1. About the National Testing Agency (NTA) 
The Ministry of Education (MoE), Government of India (GoI) has established the National 
Testing Agency (NTA) as an independent, autonomous, and self-sustained premier testing 
organization under the Societies Registration Act (1860) for conducting efficient, 
transparent, and international standardized tests in order to  assess the competency of 
candidates for admission to higher education institutions with a mission to improve equity 
and quality in education by developing and administering research -based valid, reliable, 
efficient, transparent, fair and international level assessments. 
NTA has created a system that promotes teaching (by teachers), learning (by students), and 
assessment (by parents and institutions). NTA strongly believes in the quality, efficiency, 
effectiveness, equity, and security of assessments. To practice these values, NTA is 
constantly engaging with i ts stakeholders, viz. students, parents, teachers, experts, and 
partner institutions. 
The objectives of NTA, inter alia, include: 
1. To conduct efficient, transparent, and international standardized tests in order to assess 
the competency of candidates for admission. 
2. To undertake research on educational, professional, and testing systems to identify gaps 
in the knowledge systems and take steps for bridging them.  
3. To produce and disseminate information and research on education and professional 
development standards. 
The National Testing Agency has been entrusted with the responsibility of conducting the 
Common University Entrance Test (UG) for admission into the Undergraduate 
programmes/ courses for all the Central Universities (CUs) for the Academic session 2025-
2026.  
1.2. About Central Universities (CUs) 
Central Universities or Union Universities in India are established by an Act of Parliament 
and are under the purview of the Department of Higher Education in the  Ministry of 
Education. In general, Universities in India are recognized by the University  Grants 
Commission (UGC), which draws its power from the University Grants Commission Act, 
1956. Central universities, in  addition, are covered by the Central Universities Act, 2009, 
which regulates their purpose, powers, governance, etc. 
1.3. About Common University Entrane Test (CUET (UG)-2025) 
The Common University Entrance Test (CUET) Scores will be used for admission into UG 
Programmes in all Central Universities/ Participating Universities  for Academic session 
2025-26. The Common University Entrance Test (CUET) will provide a common platform 
and equal opportunities to candidates across the country, especially those from rural and 
other remote areas , and help establish better connect ions with the Universities. A single 
Examination will enable the Candidates to cover a wide outreach and be part of the
12  
The letters/e-mails/grievances/queries/RTI applications/Court cases pertaining to 
admission related matters/procedures will not be entertained by NTA. The same 
may be addressed to the concerned University. 
admissions process to various Central Universities.  The list of Central 
Universities/Participating Universities may be seen at https://cuet.nta.nic.in.  
 
1.4. Role of NTA 
The Role of NTA is confined to the registration of candidates, the conduct of the test, 
hosting of answer k eys, inviting challenges, finalizing answer key s, preparing and 
declaring results, and hosting Score Card.  
 
A m erit list will be prepared by participating Universities/ Institutes/organizations.  
Universities may conduct their individual counselling based on the Scorecard of CUET 
(UG) –2025 provided by NTA.
13  
Medium of the Question Papers: The CUET (UG)- 2025 will be conducted in 13 Indian 
languages (English, Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, 
Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu, and Urdu). 
 
CHAPTER – 2 
EXAMINATION SCHEME 
2.1. Mode of Examination: 
CUET (UG) - 2025 will be conducted in Computer Based Test (CBT) mode only. 
 
2.2. Medium of Examination: 
 
 
 
 
The option of language for Question Paper should be exercised while filling up the 
Application Form online and it cannot be changed at a later stage. 
 
2.3. Scheme of Examination 
S. No. Parameters CUET (UG) - 2025 
1.  Total subjects 37 (13 Indian languages + 23 domain-specific subjects + 
01 General Aptitude Test).  
2.  Choice of Test Paper 
Candidates may choose upto a maximum of five (05) 
subjects including languages and General Aptitude 
Test irrespective of the subjects opted in class XII.*s 
3.  Mode of the Exam Computer Based Test (CBT) mode 
4.  Total Questions 50 questions for each test papers. All Question are 
compulsory. 
5.  Duration Duration for each test paper would be 60 minutes 
6.  Shift 
The examination will be conducted in multiple shifts, 
depending on the number of Candidates and Subject 
choices. 
7.  Marking Scheme 
Correct Answer: 05 marks (Five)  
There will be negative marking for each incorrect 
answer of  01 (one) mark.  
*Candidates may select the subjects based on the  eligibility criteria for a programme of a desired university  
 
 
2.4. The pattern of Question Paper: 
Objective type Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs).  
 
2.5. Tests / Subject covered under CUET (UG) - 2025   
 
The list of Languages, Domain Specific Subjects and General Aptitude Test covered in CUET 
(UG) – 2025 is given in  Appendix II. 
 
 
2.6. Duration of Test: 
Duration for each test paper would be 60 minutes  The e xamination will be conducted in 
multiple shifts depending on the number of candidates and their combinations.  (Compensatory 
time for PwBD Candidates of 20 minutes for each hour)
14  
 
CHAPTER – 3 
ELIGIBILITY 
3.1. Eligibility 
For appearing in the CUET (UG) - 2025, there is no age limit for the candidates. The candidates 
who have passed the class 12 /equivalent examination or are appearing in 2025 can appear in 
the CUET (UG) - 2025 examination. However, the candidates will be required to fulfill the age 
criteria (if any) of the University / Institution / Organization  in which they are desirous of 
taking admission.  
 
3.2. List of Qualifying Examinations (QE) 
i. The final examination of the 10+2 system,  conducted by any recognized Central/ State 
Board, such as the Central Board of Secondary Education, New Delhi; Council for the Indian 
School Certificate Examinations, New Delhi.  
ii. Intermediate or two-year Pre-University examination conducted by a recognized Board/ 
University. 
iii. Final examination of the two-year course of the Joint Services Wing of the National Defence 
Academy 
iv. Senior Secondary School Examination  conducted by the National Institute of Open 
Schooling with a minimum of five subjects. 
v. Any Public School/ Board/ University examination in India or any foreign country is 
recognized as equivalent to the 10+2 system  by the Association of Indian Universities 
(AIU). 
vi. Higher Secondary Certificate Vocational Examination.  
vii. A Diploma recognized by AICTE or a State board of technical education of at least 3 years 
duration.  
viii. General Certificate Education (GCE) examination (London/Cambridge/Sri Lanka) at the 
Advanced (A) level.  
ix. High School Certificate Examination of the Cambridge University or International 
Baccalaureate Diploma of the International Baccalaureate Office, Geneva.  
x. Candidates who have completed the Class 12 (or equivalent) examination outside India or 
from a Board not specified above should produce a certificate from the Association of 
Indian Universities (AIU) to the effect that the examination they have passed is equivalent 
to the Class 12 Examination.  
 
xi. In case the Class 12 Examination is not a public examination, the candidate must have 
passed at least one public (Board or Pre-University) examination earlier. 
  
3.3. Year of Appearance in Qualifying Examination  
For the year of appearance in the Class 12 / equivalent examination, rel evant conditions of 
Universities / Institutions (as applicable) will be applied. The candidate must ensure his 
eligibility from the website of respective Universities / Institutions.
15  
  
Note:  
1. For admission in Universities through CUET (UG) - 2025, the existing policies 
regarding quota, category, relaxation, reservations, qualification, subject combinations, 
preferences, etc. of the respective University / Institution / Organization shall be 
applicable. 
 
2. As the eligibility criteria for admission may be unique for every University, the 
candidates are advised to visit the University website to which they are applying for 
their respective programes. 
 
3. Candidates are advised to satisfy themselves before applying that they possess the 
eligibility criteria laid down by the University they are applying to. 
 
4. Mere appearance in the Entrance Test does not entitle a candidate to be considered for 
admission to the Programme  unless he/she fulfi lls the Programme -wise eligibility 
conditions of the University they are applying to.
16  
CHAPTER – 4 
RESERVATIONS 
4.1 Reservations 
Indian nationals belonging to certain categories (OBC-NCL, Gen-EWS, SC, ST) are admitted 
under the seats reserved for them in accordance with the rules prescribed by the Government 
of India/State Governments. 
 
4.2 Provisions relating to Persons with Disability (PwD)/ Persons with Benchmark 
Disability (PwBD): 
4.2.1 The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016: 
The Gazette of India, Extraordinary Part -II Section 1, Ministry of Law And Justice (Legislative 
Department) New Delhi dated 28 December 2016 on “The Rights of Persons With Disabilities 
Act, 2016. The relevant paragraphs of the above Gazette Notification fo r consideration are as 
under: - 
    Chapter -1. 
Para 2(r), “persons with benchmark disabilities”  means a person with not less than 
forty percent (40%) of a specified disability  where specified disability has not been 
defined in measurable terms and includes a person with disability where specified 
disability has been defined in measurable terms, as certified by the certifying authority. 
 
Para 2 (s) “Persons with Disability  (PwD)” means a person with long term physical, 
mental, intellectual, or sensory impairment which, in interaction with barriers, hinders 
his full and effective participation in society equally with others. 
 
Para 2 (zc) “specified disability” means the disabilities as specified in the schedule (Appendix-
VII) 
4.2.2 Office Memorandum dated 29 August 2018: 
Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt. of India, Office Memorandum No. F. 
No. 34- 02/2015-DD-III dated 29 August 2018 for conducting written examination for 
persons with specified disabilities covered under the definition of Section 2(r) of the 
RPwD Act, 2016. The  relevant paragraphs of the  above Office Memorandum for  
consideration are as under : - 
 
Para IV. The facility of Scribe/Reader/Lab Assistant should be allowed to any person 
with benchmark disability as defined under section 2(r) of the RPwD Act, 2016 and has 
limitation in writing including that of speed if so desired by him/her. 
 
In case of persons with benchmark disabilities in the category of blindness, locomotor 
disability (both arm affected-BA) and cerebral palsy, the facility of scribe/reader/lab 
assistant shall be given, if so desired by the person. 
 
In case of other category of persons with benchmark disabilities, the provision of 
scribe/reader/lab assistant can be allowed on production of a certificate to the 
effect that person  concerned has physical limitation to write, and scribe is 
essential to write examination on his  behalf, from the Chief Medical Officer/Civil 
Surgeon/Medical Superintendent of a Government  health care institution as per 
proforma at Appendix - VIII. 
 
In case the candidate is allowed to bring his own scribe, the qualification of the scribe 
should be one step below the qualification of the candidate taking examination. The 
person opting for own scribe should submit details of the own scribe as per proforma 
at Appendix-IX.
17  
4.2.3 Office Memorandum dated 10 August 2022: 
Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt. of India, Office Memorandum No F. 
No. 29 -6/2019-DD-III dated 10 August 2022 for conducting written examination for 
persons with specified disabilities covered under the definition of Section 2(s) of the 
RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the definition of Section 2(r) of the said Act, i.e. 
person having less than 40% disability and having difficulty in writing. The relevant 
paragraphs of the above Office Memorandum for consideration are as under: - 
 
Para 3 (b).The facility of scribe and/or compensatory time shall be granted solely to 
those having difficulty in writing subject to production of a certificate to the effect that 
person concerned has limitation to write and that scribe is essential to write examination 
on his/her behalf from the competent medical authority of a Government healthcare 
institution as per proforma at Appendix-VIII. 
 
Para 3 (c).The medical authority for the purpose of certification as mentioned above 
should be a multi-member authority comprising the following: - 
i. Chief Medical officer/Civil Surgeon /Chief District Medical Officer, Chairperson 
ii. Orthopaedic/PMR specialist 
iii. Neurologist, if available* 
iv. Clinical Psychologist/Rehabilitation Psychologist/ Psychiatrist/Special Educator 
Occupational therapist, if available* 
v. Any other expert based on the condition of the candidate as may be nominated by 
the Chairperson. 
 
The candidate should fill up the details of the scribe as per the undertaking proforma in 
Annexure VI. 
 
(* the Chief Medical Officer/Civil Surgeon/Chief District Medical Officer may make 
full efforts for inclusion of neurologists, occupational therapist from the nearest District 
or the Medical College/Institute, if the same is not available in the District)” 
 
The candidate should fill up the details of scribe as per undertaking proforma at 
Appendix-IX. 
 
4.3 Scribe and Compensatory Time 
1. The candidate should have the discretion of opting for his own scribe / reader / lab assistant 
or request the Examination Body for the same.  The examining body may also identify the scribe 
/ reader / lab assistant to make panels at the District / Division  / State level as per the 
requirements of the examination.  In such instances the candidates should be allowed to meet 
the scribe two days before the examinations so that the candidates get a chance to check and 
verify whether the scribe is suitable or not. 
 
2. The word “extra time or additional time” that is being currently used should be changed to 
“compensatory time” and the same should not be less than 20 minutes per hour of examination 
for persons who are allowed use of scribe / reader / lab assistant.  All the candidates with 
benchmark disabilities who are eligible for availing the facility of scribe in terms of guidelines 
vide para IV of Para 2.2.2 above may be allowed additional time of minimum of one hour for 
examination of 3 hours duration whether they use the facility of scribe or not.  In case the 
duration of the examination is less than an hour, then the duration of additional time should be 
allowed on pro-rata basis. Additional time should not be less than 5 minutes and should be in 
the multiple of 5”. 
 
Note – Both the guidelines i.e. dated 29 August 2018 (for PwBDs) and dated 10 August 2022 (for 
PwDs) have other important aspects such as allowing use of assistive devices, proper seating 
arrangement, accessibility of examination centres etc. which will be followed.
18  
The scribe will help the Candidate in reading the questions and / or keying in the answers as 
per the directions of the Candidate. A scribe will NEITHER explain the questions NOR suggest 
any solution to the Candidate.  
It is to be noted that the Scribe will be provided by the National Testing Agency (NTA), if 
requested by the Candidate. 
If it is found at any stage that a candidate has availed the services of a scribe and/or availed the 
compensatory time but does not possess the extent of disability that warrants the use of a scribe 
and/or grant of compensatory time, the candidate will be excluded from the process of 
evaluation, ranking, counselling and admission. In case such a candidate has already been 
admitted to any Institution, the admission of the candidate will be cancelled. 
Disability certificate/Unique Disability Identification (UDID)) issued by the notified medical 
authority needs to be uploaded in the Online Application Form of CUET (UG) 2025 
Note:The NTA does not guarantee any change in the category or sub -category (PwD/PwBD 
status) after the submission of the Online Application Form, and in any case, no change will be 
entertained by NTA after the declaration of NTA Score for CUET (UG) 2025. The category/sub-
category (PwD/PwBD status) entered in the CUET (UG) Database by the candidate will be used 
as final. Therefore, the candidates are advised to fill in the category/sub-category column very 
carefully.   
Note:  The extent of “specified disability” in a person shall be assessed in accordance with  the 
“Guidelines for the purpose of assessing the extent of specified disability in a person included 
under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. 
Note: Candidates must note that the benefit of reservation will be given to them subject to 
verification of documents. If it is discovered at any stage that a candidate has used a 
false/fake/incorrect document or has furnished false, incorrect or incomplete inf ormation, in 
order to avail the benefit of reservation, then such a candidate shall be excluded from all 
admission processes. In case such a candidate has already been given admission, the admission 
shall stand cancelled. 
 In the case of the Institutes run/aided/recognized by State Governments, the reservation policy 
of the respective State Governments shall be applicable
19  
CHAPTER – 5 
CHOICE OF CITIES 
 
5.1 The Cities where the CUET (UG) - 2025  will be conducted are given in Appendix I II. While 
applying, candidates have to select any four cities of their choice . Efforts will be made to  allot 
the city of examination to the candidates in the order of preference opted by them in their online 
Application Form s. However, due to administrative/logistic reasons, a different city can be 
allotted. 
 
5.2 The decision to have a CBT examination in cities will lie with the NTA and will be dependent on 
multiple factors. Though every effort will be made to allot a Centre in one of the cities selected by 
the candidate, the NTA reserves the right to allot a city to the candidate which may fall out of the 
options opted by the candidates due to administrative reasons. 
 
5.3 In case, there are very few candidates from a City, the NTA reserves the right to merge one, two, 
or more cities.  
 
5.4 The decision of the NTA regarding the allotment of the City/Centre shall be final  and binding. 
No further correspondence or request shall be entertained in this regard. 
 
5.5 For convenience, the candidates may select their own city or neighbouring cities in their State of 
Residence only and not f ar away cities in other States. NTA will not be responsible for any 
inconvenience due to the incorrect selection of cities by the candidates. 
 
5.6 In case, the number of candidates opting for a city as the centre with a regional language is less 
than a certain minimum, candidates may be allotted a Centre in another city irrespective of the 
city opted by the candidates for appearing in the examination.    
 
Note: All efforts will be made by NTA to consider the comfort and convenience of candidates, including 
PwD/PwBD Candidates while allotting Centres.
20  
CHAPTER –6 
ADMIT CARD 
 
6.1 The Admit Card would be issued provisionally to the candidates through the NTA website:  
https://cuet.nta.nic.in subject to the fulfillment of the eligibility conditions and receipt of the prescribed 
application fee by NTA.  
 
6.2 The candidate has to download the Admit Card from the NTA website. The candidate will appear in 
the examination at the given Centre on the date and shift/timing as indicated in his/her Admit Card. 
 
6.3 No candidate will be allowed to appear at the examination Centre, on the date and shift/time other 
than that allotted to him/her in his/her Admit Card.  
 
6.4 In case of any discrepancy in the particulars of the candidate or his/her photograph and signature 
shown in the Admit Card and Confirmation Page, the candidate may immediately approach the NTA 
Help Line between 10.00 A .M. and 5.00 P .M. In such a case, the candidate would appear in the 
examination with the already downloaded Admit Card. However, NTA will take necessary action to 
make corrections in the record later. 
 
6.5 The date of downloading the Admit Card for the exam will be announced on the NTA website 
https://cuet.nta.nic.in 
Note: 
a. The Candidates may please note that Admit Cards will not be sent by post. 
b. In no case, the duplicate Admit Card for Common University Entrance Test (UG) – 2025 be issued at the 
Examination Centres. 
c. The candidates must not mutilate the Admit Card or change any entry made therein.  
d. Candidates are advised to preserve their Admit Cards in good condition for future reference. 
e. No Admit Card shall be issued to the candidates whose applications are found to be incomplete for any reasons 
(including indistinct/ doubtful photographs/unsigned Applications) or who do not fulfill the eligibility criteria 
for the examination.  
f. Issue of Admit Cards, however, shall not necessarily mean acceptance of eligibility which shall be further 
scrutinized at subsequent stages of the admission process. 
 
6.6 Candidates are advised to carry only the following with them into the examination venue: 
i. Admit card along with Self Declaration (Undertaking) downloaded from the NTA Website (a 
clear printout on A4 size paper) duly filled in 
ii. A simple transparent Ball Point Pen 
iii. Additional photograph (same as uploaded on the Online Application Form) to be pasted on 
the attendance sheet in the Examination Room/ Hall. 
iv. Any one of the authorized photo IDs (must be original, valid, and non -expired) – School 
Identity Card/ PAN card/  Passport/ Aadhaar Card (With photograph)/E -Aadhaar with 
photograph/  Class 12 Board Admit Card with photograph/ Bank Passbook with Photograph. 
v. PwD/PwBD certificate issued by the authorized medical officer, if claiming the relaxation 
under the PwD/PwBD category 
vi. Sugar tablets/fruits (like banana/apple/orange) in case the candidate is diabetic.
21  
CHAPTER – 7 
SCHEDULE OF EXAMINATION 
 
Date of Examination 08 May to 01 June 2025 (tentative) 
Mode of Examination Computer Based Test (CBT) mode 
Slot/shifts To be informed later 
Timing of Examination To be notified later  
Duration of Examination 60 minutes duration for each test paper. 
Note: Compensatory time for PwBD  Candidates, who are eligible for Scribe (whether such 
candidate uses the facility of Scribe or not) 20 minutes for each hour examination will be 
extended as per Govt. Guidelines. Such extra time will be extended test -wise and not in the 
aggregate duration of the morning/afternoon slot. 
 
 
7.1 The examination may be held on multiple shifts, depending on the number of candidates and 
their combinations. 
  
7.2 The duration of the each paper will be of 60 minutes. 
 
7.3 Though the tests are scheduled in multiple shifts, as the case may be, each test within each shift 
is distinct and independent of the other.   
 
7.4 However, the allotment of candidates to the Shift  will be based on the options exercised and 
technical and administrative considerations. 
 
7.5 Admit Cards will be issued for the course(s) opted by him/her.  No request for a change of date 
or /shift will be entertained. 
 
7.6 Candidates have to report for the slot/s as per the time stated in their respective Admit Cards.
22  
CHAPTER – 8 
IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE CANDIDATES 
 
8.1 Candidates are advised to report at the Examination Center well in time i.e. 02 hours before the 
commencement of the examination.  
8.2 Candidates should take their seats immediately after the opening of the Examination Hall. If the 
candidates do not report in time due to any reason i.e. traffic jam, train/bus delay, etc, they are 
likely to miss some of the important instructions to be ann ounced in the Examination 
Rooms/Halls. The NTA shall not be responsible for any delay. 
8.3 The candidate must show, on -demand, the Admit Card downloaded/printed from the NTA 
website for admission in the examination room/hall. The Test Centre Staff on duty is authorized 
to verify the identity of candidates and may take steps to verify and confirm  the identity 
credentials. A candidate who does not possess a valid Admit Card and authorized Photo ID shall 
not be permitted to take the examination under any circumstances by the Centre Superintendent. 
8.4 A seat indicating Roll Number will be allotted to each candidate. Candidates should find and sit 
in their allocated seats only. In case a candidate ventures to change his/her seat and does not sit 
on the seat allotted to him/her could face cancellation of candidature. No plea would be 
entertained in this regard. 
8.5 The candidate should ensure that the Question Paper available on the computer is as per his/her 
opted subject indicated in the Admit Card. In case, the subject of the Question Paper is other than 
his/her opted subject, the same may be brought to the notice  of the Invigilator concerned  
immediately.    
8.6 The candidates may approach the Centre Superintendent/Invigilator in the room for any 
technical assistance, first aid emergency, or any other information during the course of the 
examination. For any queries or issues regarding the Test, the candidates may contact on Helpline 
Numbers available on the NTA website. 
8.7 For any queries or issues regarding the Computer Based Test, the candidates may contact on 
Helpline Numbers available on the CUET (UG) website. 
8.8 In case a candidate, by furnishing false information, his / her candidature will be cancelled and 
his / her result will not be declared. 
8.9 For those who are unable to appear on the scheduled date of the test for any reason, a re-test shall 
not be held by the NTA under any circumstances. 
8.10 All Candidates shall ensure that the information (like his/her name, mother’s name, father’s 
name, gender, date of birth, category, PwD /PwBD status, mobile number, e -mail address, 
photograph, and signature, choice of cities for examination Centre, etc.) provided by them in their 
online Application Form is correct. Candidates are advised to exercise the utmost care in filling 
up the correct details in the Online Application Form. Any request for change in the particulars 
and uploaded scanned images at any st age will not be considered by NTA under any 
circumstances. NTA will not entertain the corrections sent by the candidate through 
Post/Fax/WhatsApp/E- mail/by Hand. 
8.11 Candidates are NOT allowed to carry Instruments, Geometry or Pencil box, Handbag, Purse, any kind of 
Paper/ Stationery/ Textual material (printed or written material ), Eatables and Water (loose or 
packed), Mobile Phone/ Earphone/ Microphone/ Pager, Calculator , DocuPen, Slide Rules, Log 
Tables, Camera, Tape Recorder, Electronic Watches with facilities of calculator, any metallic item 
or electronic gadgets/ devices in the Examination Hall/Room.
23  
 
8.12 Candidates are requested to retain a copy of the Confirmation Page, Admit Card, and Scorecard 
of the CUET (UG) 2025. 
Note: Candidates shall appear at their own cost at the Centre on the Date and Shift as indicated in 
their Admit Card issued by the NTA. Under no circumstances the choice of cities for the Centre 
and shift provided in the Admit Card shall be changed. 
 
Candidates MUST carry the following documents on the day of examination at the test centre. In 
the absence of these documents, candidates will not be allowed to sit for the examination. 
 
a) Print copy of Admit Card along with Self Declaration (Undertaking) downloaded from the NTA 
Website (a clear printout on A4 size paper) duly filled in. 
b) One passport size photograph (same as uploaded on the Online Application Form) for pasting on 
the specific space in the Attendance Sheet at Centre during the examination. 
c) Any one of the authorized photo IDs (must be original, valid, and non -expired) – School 
Identity Card/ PAN card/  Passport/ Aadhaar Card (With photograph)/E -Aadhaar with 
photograph/  Class 12 Board Admit Card with photograph/ Bank Passbook with Photograph. 
d) PwD/PwBD certificate issued by the authorized medical officer, if claiming the relaxation under 
PwD/PwBD category or PwD/PwBD Certificate regarding physical limitation in an examination 
to write as per Annexures given in Information Bulletin, if claiming t he relaxation under 
PwD/PwBD category. 
e) A simple transparent Ball Point Pen. 
 
Rough work 
All calculations/writing work is to be done only in the Rough Sheet provided at the Test Centre in 
the Examination Room/Hall and on completion of the test, candidates must hand over the Rough 
Sheets to the Invigilator on duty in the Room/Hall.
24  
CHAPTER – 9 
UNFAIR MEANS PRACTICES AND BREACH OF EXAMINATION RULES 
 
9.1 Defination 
Unfair Means practice is an activity that allows a candidate to gain an unfair advantage over 
other candidates. It includes, but is not limited to: 
a) Being in possession of any item or article which has been prohibited or can be used for unfair 
practices including any stationery item, communication device, accessories, eatable items, 
ornaments or any other material or information relevant or not relevant to the examination 
in the paper concerned; 
b) Using someone to write an examination (impersonation) or preparing material for copying; 
c) Breaching examination rules or any direction issued by NTA in connection with the CUET 
(UG) 2025 examination from time to time; 
d) Assisting other candidates to engage in malpractices, giving or receiving assistance of any 
kind directly or indirectly or attempting to do so; 
e) Contacting or communicating or trying to do so with any person, other than the Examination 
Staff, during the examination time in the Examination Centre; 
f) Threatening any of the officials connected with the conduct of the examination or threatening 
any of the candidates; 
g) Using or attempting to use any other undesirable method or means in connection with the  
examination; 
h) Manipulation and fabrication of online documents viz. Admit Card, Self- Declaration, 
score card, certificates issued by any Government authority etc.; 
i) Forceful entry in /exit from Examination Centre/Hall; 
j) Use or attempted use of any electronic device after entering the Examination Centre; 
k) Affixing/uploading of wrong/morphed photographs/signatures on the Application 
Form/Admit Card/ Proforma; 
l) Creating obstacles in the smooth and fair conduct of the examination; 
m) Not attempting the question paper for long time intervals; 
n) Fidgeting and looking here and there; 
o) In possession of bits of paper; 
p) Any other malpractices declared as Unfair Means by the NTA; 
q) Any candidate with more than one Application Number (more than one SCORE  CARDS) 
will be treated as UFM, even if found at a later stage, and strict action will be taken against 
that Candidate. 
r) An offence punishable under the Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 
2024. 
9.2 Punishment for using unfair means practices 
During the course of, before, or after the  examination if a candidate indulges in any of the above or 
similar practices, he/she shall be deemed to have used unfair practices and booked under the 
UNFAIR MEANS (U.F.M.) case. The candidate may be debarred for 3 years in the future and shall 
also be liable for criminal action and /or any other action as deemed fit. 
9.3 Cancellation of Result 
The result CUET (UG) - 2025 of  the candidate(s) who indulge  in Unfair means Practices will be 
cancelled and will not be declared. Similarly, the result of those candidates who appear from the 
Centre other than the one allotted to them or allow another candidate/person to write the 
examination on his behalf will be cancelled.  No plea will be entertained in this regard.
25  
CHAPTER 10 
BARRED ITEMS AND DRESS CODE 
 
10.1 Barred Items 
 
10.1.1 The candidates will be subjected to extensive and compulsory frisking before entering the 
Examination Centre with the help of highly sensitive metal detectors. The candidates are not allowed 
to carry the following items inside the Examination Centre under any circumstances.  
a) Any item like textual material (printed or written), bits of paper, Geometry/Pencil Box, Plastic 
Pouch, Calculator, Pen, Scale, Writing Pad, Pen Drives, Eraser, Calculator, Log Table, 
Electronic Pen/Scanner, etc. 
b) Any communication device like Mobile Phone, Bluetooth, Earphones, Microphone, Pager, 
Health Band, etc. 
c) Other items like Wallet, Goggles, Handbags, Belt, Cap, etc. 
d) Any Watch/Wristwatch, Bracelet, Camera, etc. 
e) Any ornaments/metallic items. 
f) Any food items opened or packed, water bottles, etc. 
g) Any other item that could be used for unfair means, communication devices like a microchip, 
camera, Bluetooth device, etc. 
 
10.1.2 No arrangement will be made at the Centres for keeping any articles/items belonging to the 
candidates. 
 
10.1.3 The candidates wearing articles or objects of faith (customary/ cultural/ religious ) should 
report at the examination centre atleast two hours before the last reporting time  so that there is 
enough time for proper frisking without any inconvenience to the candidate while maintaining the 
sanctity of the examination. If upon screening, it is discovered that any candidate is actually carrying 
a suspected device within such an item of faith, he/ she may be asked not to take it into the 
examination hall.  
 
10.2 Dress Code 
10.2.1 The candidates are instructed to follow the following dress code while appearing for CUET 
(UG) - 2025: 
a. Heavy clothes with long sleeves are not permitted. However in case, candidates come in 
cultural/ customary dress at the Examination Centre, they should report at least an hour 
before the last reporting time so that there is enough time for proper frisking witho ut any 
inconvenience to the candidate while maintaining the sanctity of the examination. 
b. Slippers, and sandals with low heels are permitted. Shoes are not permitted. 
c. In case of any deviation required due to unavoidable (medical, etc.) circumstances, specific 
approval of NTA must be taken before the Admit Cards are issued.  
 10.2.2 It is desired that the candidates shall strictly follow instructions issued by the NTA to ensure 
fair conduct of the examination. 
Note: The NTA believes in the sanctity and fairness of conducting the examination, however, it also believes in the 
sensitivity involved in frisking (girl) candidates and will issue comprehensive instructions accordingly to the staff and 
other officials at the Examination Centres. The frisking of t he female candidates will be done inside a closed enclosure by 
female staff only.
26  
CHAPTER – 11 
DISPLAY OF ANSWER KEY FOR CHALLENGE 
 
 
11.1 DISPLAY OF ANSWER KEY FOR CHALLENGES 
 
1. The NTA will display the Provisional Answer Key of the questions on the NTA website: 
https://cuet.nta.nic.in  with a Public Notice, issued to this effect on the said website, to provide 
an opportunity to the candidates to challenge the Provisional Answer Keys with a non -
refundable online payment of ₹ 200/- per question challenged as processing charges. The 
provisional Answer Keys are likely to be displayed for two to three days. 
 
2. Only paid challenges made during the stipulated time through the key challenge link will be 
considered. Challenges without justification/evidence and those filed on any other medium 
other than the prescribed link will not be considered.   
 
3. The NTA decision on the challenges shall be final and no further communication will be 
entertained. NTA will not inform the Candidates individually about the outcome of the 
challenges made. 
 
4. The subject experts will examine all the challenges received and then a final answer key will be 
displayed and declared. 
 
5. The result will be compiled based on the final answer key declared. No grievance with regard 
to answer key(s) after the declaration of result/NTA Score of CUET (UG) - 2025 will be 
entertained. 
11.2  DISPLAY OF RECORDED RESPONSES 
 
The NTA will display the recorded responses and Question Papers attempted by the candidates 
on the NTA website https://cuet.nta.nic.in prior to the declaration of the result/NTA Score. The 
recorded responses are likely to be displayed for two to three days.
27  
CHAPTER – 12 
CUET (UG) - 2025 NTA SCORE FOR ADMISSIONS IN CENTRAL AND OTHER 
PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITIES / INSTITUTIONS / ORGANIZATIONS 
 
12.1 MARKING SCHEME OF EXAMINATION 
 
For Multiple Choice Questions: To answer a question, the candidates need to choose 
one correct answer.  However, if any anomaly or discrepancy is found after the process 
of challenges of the key verification, it shall be addressed in the following manner: 
 
i. Correct answer: Five marks (+5) 
ii. Incorrect answer marked will be given Minus one mark (-1).  
iii. Unanswered/un-attepmted will be given no mark (0). 
 
Every effort will be made to ensure that each question has one unique answer, in case, 
it is found that a question has more than one option, it will be dealt in following manner: 
 
iv. If more than one option is found to be correct then F ive marks (+5) will be awarded 
to only those who have marked any of the correct options.  
v. If none of the options is found correct or a Question is found to be wrong or a 
Question is dropped then all candidates appeared will be given f ive marks (+ 5) 
irrespective of the fact whether the question has been attempted or not attempted. 
 
12.2 CUET (UG) - 2025 NTA SCORE 
 
a) For multi -shift papers  (if conducted ), raw (actual) marks obtained by the candidates in 
different shifts/sessions will be converted to NTA Score.  
b) The detailed procedure for the compilation of the NTA Score is available on the NTA 
Website and also in Appendix VI of the Information Bulletin.  
c) The NTA Score of CUET (UG) – 2025 is valid for admission to the academic year 2025- 26 
only. 
 
 
12.3 RE-EVALUATION / RE-CHECKING OF RESULT 
 
a) The result for CUET (UG) - 2025 will be processed based on the Final Answer Keys. No 
grievance with regard to Answer Key(s) after the Declaration of Result of CUET (UG) - 2025 
will be entertained.    
b) The marks obtained by a candidate will be considered further for computation of the result 
of CUET (UG) - 2025.  
c) There shall be no re-evaluation/re-checking of the result. No correspondence in this regard 
shall be entertained.  
d) No Score Card will be dispatched to the candidates and the can didates are advised to 
download their Score Cards for CUET (UG) - 2025 from the website: https://cuet.nta.nic.in 
 
 
12.4 ADMISSIONS 
 
a) Merely appearing in CUET (UG) - 2025 does not confer any right to the candidate for 
admission to the desirous University.
28  
b) The selection and admission are subject to fulfilling the admission criteria, eligibility, rank 
in the merit list, medical fitness, verification of original documents, and such other criteria 
as may be prescribed by the University. 
c) Admissions are handled at the level of each of the Central Universities (CUs) including the 
participating Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) using CUET (UG) 2025  Score  for 
admission for their respective programme(s). After the declaration of the CUET (UG) - 2025 
result by NTA, the respective CUs will declare the counselling/ admission schedule and 
merit lis t based on the CUET (UG) - 2025 score and the othe r criteria of the respective 
University.  
 
For all admission -related procedures/queries, the candidates are advised to refer to the 
website of the applied University. 
d) NTA does not have any role in the preparation of the Merit List. 
 
12.5 USE OF SCORES OF CUET (UG) - 2025  BY OTHER ORGANIZATIONS 
 
The scores/results of CUET (UG) - 2025 may be utilized by other organizations as per 
their eligibility criteria/norms/applicable regulations/guidelines/rules.
29  
CHAPTER – 13 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
13.1. CORRESPONDENCE WITH NTA 
 
All the correspondence should preferably be addressed by e-mail. The email query shall be addressed 
only if it is not anonymous and contains the name, postal address, and contact number of the sender. 
An email containing vague or general queries and other queries as contained in the Information 
Bulletin shall not be entertained. Queries shall not be entertained from a person claiming to be 
representatives, associates, or officiates of the applicant candidate. The following information shall not 
be revealed by NTA: 
a. Internal documentation/status. 
b. The internal decision-making process of NTA. Any claim/counterclaim thereof. 
c. Dates and venue of internal meetings or name of the staff/officers dealing with it. 
d. Any information which cannot be revealed in the opinion of NTA. 
 
13.2. WEEDING OUT RULES 
 
 The record of Common University Entrance Test CUET (UG) -2025. would be preserved up to 90 days 
from the date of declaration of the result.  
 
13.3. LEGAL JURISDICTION 
 
All disputes pertaining to the conduct of the CUET (UG) -2025 Examination including Results shall fall 
within the jurisdiction of Delhi/New Delhi only. Further, any grievance/representation arising out of 
the Result shall be entertained only when raised within 30 days from the declaration of the result. 
Further, the copy of the Legal Notice or Writ Petition/Petition/Appeal/Reply may be served to NTA 
only through: legal@nta.ac.in 
 
13.4. RTI 
 
Information uploaded on the website shall not be provided to the candidate or any other person under 
R.T.I. Act, 2005. The information uploaded on the website shall remain for a specific period only. 
Therefore, the candidates are advised to download the uploaded information and keep it with them 
for the future. In due course of examination or the midway of process, neither any application under 
the Right to Information Act, 2005 shall be entertained nor information will be provided.
30  
 
 
 
 
APPENDICES
31  
Appendix - I 
List of  Central Universities 
 
S. No. Name of Central Universities 
1 Aligarh Muslim University 
2 Assam University 
3 Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University 
4 Banaras Hindu University 
5 Central University of Andhra Pradesh 
6 Central University of South Bihar 
7 Central University of Gujarat 
8 Central University of Haryana 
9 Central University of Himachal Pradesh 
10 Central University of Jammu 
11 Central University of Jharkhand 
12 Central University of Karnataka 
13 Central University of Kashmir 
14 Central University of Kerala 
15 Central University of Odisha 
16 Central University of Punjab 
17 Central University of Rajasthan 
18 Central University of Tamil Nadu 
19 Dr. Harisingh Gaur Vishwa Vidyalaya 
20 Guru Ghasidas Vishwavidyalaya 
21 Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University 
22 Indira Gandhi National Tribal University 
23 Jamia Millia Islamia 
24 Jawaharlal Nehru University 
25 Mahatma Gandhi Antarrashtriya Hindi Vishwavidyalaya 
26 Manipur University 
27 Maulana Azad National Urdu University 
28 Mizoram University
32  
S. No. Name of Central Universities 
29 Nagaland University 
30 North Eastern Hill University 
31 Pondicherry University 
32 Rajiv Gandhi University 
33 Sikkim University 
34 Tezpur University 
35 The English and Foreign Languages University 
36 Tripura University 
37 University of Allahabad 
38 University of Delhi 
39 University of Hyderabad 
40 Visva Bharati University 
41 Mahatma Gandhi Central University 
42 Central Sanskrit University, Delhi 
43 Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University 
44 National Sanskrit University 
45 Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh 
46 Sammakka Sarakka Central Tribal University 
 
Note: 
 
• CUET (UG) - 2025 is meant for admission to UG Programmes offered by Central Universities and 
other specified participating Institutions for the academic year 2025-26. 
 
• Details of Programmes / Courses offered by Universities along with their Eligibility Criteria are 
available on the respective University website. 
 
• Apart from the Central Universities, there are other participating Universities also which 
include State Government Universities, Autonomous Institution s, Private Universit ies and 
Deemed Universit ies etc. The details are available at the CUET (UG) portal.  The list of 
participating universities is dynamic. Candidates are advised to regularly visit NTA website(s) 
www.nta.ac.in, https://cuet.nta.nic.in  for the latest updates regarding the examination  and 
participating universities.  
 
• Candidates are advised to keep visiting the NTA and University website to which they are 
applying, for the latest updates/public notices/notifications/ announcements to be issued from 
time to time regarding the CUET (UG) – 2025.
33  
Appendix – II 
List of Languages/ Subjects / General Aptitude Test offered under CUET(UG) - 2025 
Subject Code Name 
Total Subjects: 37 
i. Languages -13 
ii.Domain-specific 
subjects-23 
iii.General Aptitude 
Test-01 
 
A candidate may 
choose any 
subject/language as 
desired by the 
applicable University/ 
Organization 
101 English 
102 Hindi 
103 Assamese 
104 Bengali 
105 Gujarati 
106 Kannada 
107 Malayalam 
108 Marathi 
109 Odia 
110 Punjabi 
111 Tamil 
112 Telugu 
113 Urdu 
301 Accountancy / Book Keeping  
302 Agriculture 
303 Anthropology 
304 Biology/ Biological Science/ Biotechnology /Biochemistry 
305 Business Studies 
306 Chemistry 
307 Environmental Science 
308 Computer Science / Information Practices 
309 Economics / Business Economics 
312 Fine Arts/Visual Arts/Commercial Arts 
313 Geography / Geology 
314 History 
315 Home Science 
316 Knowledge Tradition - Practices in India 
318 Mass Media / Mass Communication 
319 Mathematics / Applied Mathematics 
320 Performing Arts  (Dance, Drama , Music) 
321 Physical Education (Yoga, Sports) 
322 Physics 
323 Political Science 
324 Psychology 
325 Sanskrit 
326 Sociology 
501 
General Aptitude Test: 
1. For all the remaining languages  including  Foreign Languages (i.e. 
(Arabic,  Bodo, Chinese,  Dogri, French, German, Italian, Japanese, 
Kashmiri, Konkani, Maithili, Manipuri , Nepali, Persian, Russian, 
Santhali, Sindhi, Spanish, Tibetan and Sanskrit).
34  
Subject Code Name 
2. For domain -specific subject/paper on Entreprenurship, Teaching 
Aptitude, Fashion Studies, Tourism, Legal Studies and Engineering 
Graphics. 
 
Note : 
For the three Central Universities of Sanskrit, the candidate studying any of the subjects in the field of 
Shastric traditional subjects i.e. Sahitya, Vyakarana, Phalitha Jyotisha, Siddhanta Jyotisha, Nyaya, Advaita 
Vedanta, Visistadvaita Vedanta, Dvaita V edanta, Sankhya Yoga, Agama, Mimamsa, Puranetihasa, 
Dharanasastra, Rigvedabhashyam, Krishna Yajurveda Bhashyam, Shukla Yajurveda Bhashyam, 
Samaveda Bhashyam, Atharva Veda Bhashyam, Vastu,  may select Sanskrit (325) in the online Application 
Form of CUET (U G) – 2025. Also , candidates are advised to select the subjects as per the mapping of 
Universities.
35  
Appendix - III 
List of Examination Cities for CUET (UG) - 2025 
 
CUET (UG) - 2025 will be conducted in the following Cities,  provided there are sufficient 
numbers of candidates in the City: 
State-wise/UT-wise list of Cities in India and Abroad: 
S. NO     State        City City Code  
1 Arunachal Pradesh Naharlagun AL01 
2 Arunachal Pradesh  Papum Pare AL02 
3 Assam Guwahati AM02 
4 Assam Jorhat AM03 
5 Assam Silchar AM04 
6 Assam Tezpur AM05 
7 Assam Dibrugarh AM06 
8 Andaman & Nicobar Port Blair AN01 
9 Andhra Pradesh Anantapur AP01 
10 Andhra Pradesh Bhimavaram AP03 
11 Andhra Pradesh Chittoor AP05 
12 Andhra Pradesh Eluru AP06 
13 Andhra Pradesh Guntur AP07 
14 Andhra Pradesh Kadapa AP08 
15 Andhra Pradesh Kakinada AP09 
16 Andhra Pradesh Kurnool AP10 
17 Andhra Pradesh Nellore AP11 
18 Andhra Pradesh Ongole AP12 
19 Andhra Pradesh Rajahmundry AP13 
20 Andhra Pradesh Srikakulam AP14 
21 Andhra Pradesh Tirupathi AP16 
22 Andhra Pradesh Vijayawada AP17 
23 Andhra Pradesh Visakhapatnam AP18 
24 Andhra Pradesh Vizianagaram AP19 
25 Andhra Pradesh Narasaraopet AP20 
26 Andhra Pradesh Proddatur AP21 
27 Andhra Pradesh Surampalem AP23 
28 Andhra Pradesh Machilipatnam AP27 
29 Andhra Pradesh Nandyal AP29 
30 Andhra Pradesh Tadepalligudem AP30 
31 Bihar Aurangabad(Bihar) BR01 
32 Bihar Bhagalpur BR02 
33 Bihar Darbhanga BR04 
34 Bihar Gaya BR05 
35 Bihar Muzaffarpur BR06
36  
S. NO     State        City City Code  
36 Bihar Patna BR07 
37 Bihar Purnea BR08 
38 Bihar Arrah BR09 
39 Bihar Samastipur BR12 
40 Bihar Bihar Sharif BR38 
41 Bihar Rohtas BR41 
42 Chhattisgarh Bilaspur(Chhattisgarh) CG02 
43 Chhattisgarh Raipur CG03 
44 Chhattisgarh Jagdalpur CG04 
45 Chhattisgarh Bhilai Nagar CG11 
46 Chhattisgarh Durg CG12 
47 Chhattisgarh Ambikapur CG13 
48 Chandigarh Chandigarh /Sahibzada Ajit 
Singh Nagar 
CH01 
49 Daman & Diu Diu DD02 
50 Delhi Delhi/New Delhi DL01 
51 Dadra & Nagar Haveli Silvassa DN01 
52 Gujarat Ahmedabad GJ01 
53 Gujarat Anand GJ02 
54 Gujarat Jamnagar GJ06 
55 Gujarat Junagadh GJ07 
56 Gujarat Rajkot GJ10 
57 Gujarat Surat GJ11 
58 Gujarat Vadodara GJ12 
59 Gujarat Himatnagar GJ14 
60 Gujarat Mehsana GJ31 
61 Gujarat Gandhinagar GJ32 
62 Gujarat Bhuj GJ33 
63 Gujarat Vapi GJ36 
64 Goa Panaji / Mapusa GO01 
65 Himachal Pradesh Hamirpur(Himachal Pradesh) HP03 
66 Himachal Pradesh Shimla HP06 
67 Himachal Pradesh Mandi HP08 
68 Himachal Pradesh Una HP09 
69 Himachal Pradesh Kullu HP10 
70 Himachal Pradesh Bilaspur(Himachal Pradesh) HP13 
71 Himachal Pradesh Kangra HP16 
72 Haryana Ambala HR01 
73 Haryana Gurugram HR02 
74 Haryana Faridabad HR03 
S. NO     State        City City Code
37  
S. NO     State        City City Code  
75 Haryana Hisar HR10 
76 Jharkhand Bokaro JH01 
77 Jharkhand Dhanbad JH02 
78 Jharkhand Jamshedpur JH03 
79 Jharkhand Ranchi JH04 
80 Jharkhand Hazaribagh JH05 
81 Jharkhand Ramgarh JH15 
82 Jammu & Kashmir Jammu JK02 
83 Jammu & Kashmir Srinagar(J & K) JK04 
84 Jammu & Kashmir Pulwama JK06 
85 Jammu & Kashmir Samba JK11 
86 Karnataka Ballari(Bellary) KK01 
87 Karnataka Belagavi(Belgaum) KK02 
88 Karnataka Bengaluru KK04 
89 Karnataka Davanagere KK06 
90 Karnataka Kalaburagi(Gulbarga) KK08 
91 Karnataka Hassan KK09 
92 Karnataka Dharwad KK10 
93 Karnataka Mangaluru(Mangalore) KK12 
94 Karnataka Mysuru(Mysore) KK14 
95 Karnataka Shivamogga(Shimoga) KK15 
96 Karnataka Tumakuru KK16 
97 Karnataka Chikkamagaluru KK23 
98 Karnataka Hubballi(Hubli) KK27 
99 Karnataka Udupi KK38 
100 Kerala Idukki KL05 
101 Kerala Kannur KL07 
102 Kerala Kasaragod KL08 
103 Kerala Kollam KL09 
104 Kerala Kottayam KL11 
105 Kerala Kozhikode KL12 
106 Kerala Malappuram KL13 
107 Kerala Palakkad KL15 
108 Kerala Pathanamthitta KL16 
109 Kerala Thiruvananthapuram KL17 
110 Kerala Thrissur KL18 
111 Kerala Wayanad KL19 
112 Kerala Piyyannur KL21 
113 Kerala Alappuzha KL22 
114 Kerala Chengannur KL23 
115 Kerala Ernakulam KL24
38  
S. NO     State        City City Code  
S. NO     State        City City Code  
116 Kerala Moovattupuzha KL25 
117 Lakshadweep Kavaratti LD01 
118 Leh Ladhak Leh LL01 
119 Leh Ladakh Kargil LL02 
120 Meghalaya Shillong MG01 
121 Meghalaya Tura MG02 
122 Manipur Imphal MN01 
123 Madhya Pradesh Balaghat MP01 
124 Madhya Pradesh Bhopal MP03 
125 Madhya Pradesh Gwalior MP06 
126 Madhya Pradesh Indore MP07 
127 Madhya Pradesh Jabalpur MP08 
128 Madhya Pradesh Sagar MP12 
129 Madhya Pradesh Satna MP13 
130 Madhya Pradesh Ujjain MP15 
131 Madhya Pradesh Khandwa MP29 
132 Maharashtra Ahmednagar MR01 
133 Maharashtra Akola MR02 
134 Maharashtra Amravati MR03 
135 Maharashtra Chhatrapati Sambhaji Nagar MR04 
136 Maharashtra Chandrapur MR09 
137 Maharashtra Dhule MR10 
138 Maharashtra Jalgaon MR13 
139 Maharashtra Kolhapur MR14 
140 Maharashtra Latur MR15 
141 Maharashtra Nagpur MR17 
142 Maharashtra Nanded MR18 
143 Maharashtra Nashik MR19 
144 Maharashtra Pune MR22 
145 Maharashtra Sangli MR25 
146 Maharashtra Satara MR26 
147 Maharashtra Solapur MR27 
148 Maharashtra Thane MR28 
149 Maharashtra Wardha MR29 
150 Maharashtra Beed MR30 
151 Maharashtra Bhandara MR31 
152 Maharashtra Buldhana MR32 
153 Maharashtra Ratnagiri MR33 
154 Maharashtra Yavatmal MR34 
155 Maharashtra Parbhani MR38
39  
S. NO     State        City City Code  
156 Maharashtra Gadchiroli MR40 
S. NO     State        City City Code  
157 Maharashtra Jalna MR42 
158 Maharashtra Mumbai/ Navi Mumbai MR43 
159 Mizoram Aizawl MZ01 
160 Nagaland Dimapur NL01 
161 Nagaland Kohima NL02 
162 Odisha Balasore(Baleswar) OR01 
163 Odisha Berhampur-Ganjam OR03 
164 Odisha Bhubaneswar OR04 
165 Odisha Cuttack OR05 
166 Odisha Dhenkanal OR06 
167 Odisha Rourkela OR08 
168 Odisha Sambalpur OR09 
169 Odisha Angul OR10 
170 Odisha Bhadrak OR11 
171 Odisha Baripada/Mayurbanj OR12 
172 Odisha Jajpur OR13 
173 Odisha Kendrapara OR14 
174 Odisha Kendujhar(Keonjhar) OR15 
175 Odisha Puri OR16 
176 Odisha Jagatsinghpur OR17 
177 Odisha Jeypore(Odisha) OR19 
178 Odisha Balangir OR20 
179 Odisha Baragarh OR21 
180 Odisha Rayagada OR26 
181 Punjab Amritsar PB01 
182 Punjab Bhatinda PB02 
183 Punjab Jalandhar/Phagwara PB04 
184 Punjab Ludhiana PB05 
185 Punjab Pathankot PB07 
186 Punjab Patiala/Fatehgarh Sahib PB08 
187 Puducherry Puducherry PO01 
188 Rajasthan Ajmer RJ01 
189 Rajasthan Alwar RJ02 
190 Rajasthan Bikaner RJ05 
191 Rajasthan Jaipur RJ06 
192 Rajasthan Jodhpur RJ07 
193 Rajasthan Kota RJ08 
194 Rajasthan Sikar RJ09 
195 Rajasthan Sriganganagar RJ10
40  
S. NO     State        City City Code  
196 Rajasthan Udaipur RJ11 
197 Rajasthan Bhilwara RJ12 
S. NO     State        City City Code  
198 Rajasthan Bharatpur RJ16 
199 Rajasthan Dausa RJ17 
200 Rajasthan Hanumangarh RJ23 
201 Sikkim Gangtok SM01 
202 Tripura Agartala TA01 
203 Telangana Karimnagar TL02 
204 Telangana Khammam TL03 
205 Telangana Mahabubnagar TL04 
206 Telangana Nalgonda TL05 
207 Telangana Warangal TL07 
208 Telangana Nizamabad TL08 
209 Telangana Suryapet TL09 
210 Telangana Siddipet TL11 
211 Telangana Jagtial TL15 
212 Telangana Kothagudem TL17 
213 Telangana Hyderabad TL22 
214 Tamil Nadu Chennai TN01 
215 Tamil Nadu Coimbatore TN02 
216 Tamil Nadu Cuddalore TN03 
217 Tamil Nadu Kanchipuram TN05 
218 Tamil Nadu Kanyakumari TN06 
219 Tamil Nadu Madurai TN08 
220 Tamil Nadu Namakkal TN10 
221 Tamil Nadu Salem TN11 
222 Tamil Nadu Thanjavur TN12 
223 Tamil Nadu Thoothukudi TN13 
224 Tamil Nadu Tiruchirappalli TN14 
225 Tamil Nadu Tirunelveli TN15 
226 Tamil Nadu Vellore TN18 
227 Tamil Nadu Virudhunagar TN20 
228 Tamil Nadu Krishnagiri TN21 
229 Tamil Nadu Tirupur TN22 
230 Tamil Nadu Viluppuram TN23 
231 Tamil Nadu Nagercoil TN24 
232 Tamil Nadu Dharmapuri TN26 
233 Tamil Nadu Dindigul TN27 
234 Tamil Nadu Erode TN28 
235 Tamil Nadu Karur TN29
41  
S. NO     State        City City Code  
236 Tamil Nadu Pudukkottai TN31 
237 Tamil Nadu Ramanathapuram TN32 
238 Tamil Nadu Sivaganga TN33 
S. NO     State        City City Code  
239 Tamil Nadu Tiruvallur TN34 
240 Tamil Nadu Tiruvannamalai TN35 
241 Uttarakhand Dehradun UK01 
242 Uttarakhand Haldwani UK02 
243 Uttarakhand Roorkee UK06 
244 Uttarakhand Pauri Garhwal UK08 
245 Uttarakhand Almora UK09 
246 Uttar Pradesh Agra UP01 
247 Uttar Pradesh Aligarh UP02 
248 Uttar Pradesh Prayagraj/Allahabad UP03 
249 Uttar Pradesh Bareilly UP04 
250 Uttar Pradesh Ghaziabad UP07 
251 Uttar Pradesh Gorakhpur UP08 
252 Uttar Pradesh Noida / Greater Noida UP09 
253 Uttar Pradesh Jhansi UP10 
254 Uttar Pradesh Kanpur UP11 
255 Uttar Pradesh Lucknow UP12 
256 Uttar Pradesh Mathura UP13 
257 Uttar Pradesh Meerut UP14 
258 Uttar Pradesh Moradabad UP15 
259 Uttar Pradesh Muzaffarnagar UP16 
260 Uttar Pradesh Varanasi UP18 
261 Uttar Pradesh Azamgarh UP19 
262 Uttar Pradesh Ballia UP20 
263 Uttar Pradesh Ayodhya UP21 
264 Uttar Pradesh Firozabad UP22 
265 Uttar Pradesh Ghazipur UP23 
266 Uttar Pradesh Akbarpur(Ambedkar Nagar) UP25 
267 Uttar Pradesh Bulandshahr UP29 
268 Uttar Pradesh Mau UP35 
269 Uttar Pradesh Rai Bareilly UP37 
270 Uttar Pradesh Saharanpur UP38 
271 Uttar Pradesh Chandauli UP41 
272 Uttar Pradesh Pratapgarh UP43 
273 West Bengal Asansol WB01 
274 West Bengal Burdwan(Bardhaman) WB02 
275 West Bengal Durgapur WB04
42  
S. NO     State        City City Code  
276 West Bengal Hooghly WB06 
277 West Bengal Howrah WB07 
278 West Bengal Kalyani WB08 
279 West Bengal Kolkata WB10 
S. NO     State        City City Code  
280 West Bengal Siliguri WB11 
281 West Bengal Paschim Medinipur WB13 
282 West Bengal Purba Medinipur WB14 
283 West Bengal Bankura WB16 
284 West Bengal Murshidabad/Baharampur WB21 
285 West Bengal Suri WB22 
 
 
Examination Cities Outside India 
286 Baharain Manama ZZ01 
287 Indonesia West Java ZZ02 
288 Kuwait Kuwait ZZ03 
289 Malaysia Kuala Lumpur ZZ04 
290 Germany Munich ZZ05 
291 Nepal Kathmandu ZZ06 
292 Nigeria Lagos ZZ07 
293 Oman Muscat ZZ08 
294 Qatar Doha ZZ09 
295 Saudi Arabia Riyadh ZZ10 
296 Singapore Singapore ZZ11 
297 UAE Dubai ZZ12 
298 UAE - Abu Dhabi Abu Dhabi ZZ13 
299 UAE - Sharjah Sharjah ZZ14 
300 Washington DC Washington ZZ15 
 
 
Note: 
i. The candidate can provide up to a maximum of 04 cities as options. The decision 
to run a CBT examination in those cities will lie with the NTA and will be 
dependent on multiple factors.  
ii.  
Though every effort will be made to allot a Centre in one of the cities selected by 
the candidate, the NTA reserves the right to allot a city to the candidate which 
may, in extreme circumstances fall out of the options opted by the candidates due 
to administrative reasons.
43  
 
Appendix –IV 
 
Procedure for Online Payment of Fees and Helpline for Payment-Related Queries 
 
After completing Step 2 of the Online Application Form , the candidate may remit the 
examination fee (Step 3)  in the following manner: 
  
▪ Check the validity of the Debit/ Credit Card and keep it ready with you while logging 
on to the website for submitting the Application Form. The candidates should enter the 
information asked for and make payment through a Debit/ Credit Card.  
▪ Through Net Banking, check the balance in your account and keep all credentials ready 
with you while logging on to the website to make payments. The candidates should log 
in with his/her credentials of net banking and make payments accordingly. 
▪ For payment through a UPI Service, check whether there is a requisite balance in the 
Bank Account / Wallet to which the concerned UPI is linked. 
 
The prescribed Examination Fee (please see the Information at a Glance) can be paid 
through any Bank/Payment Gateway in any Payment Mode [service/processing charges 
per transaction and GST (if applicable) are to be borne by the candidate: 
 
HDFC Bank Ltd 
S. No Mode of Payment HDFC BANK 
1 Net Banking  HDFC  NIL Charge 
Other Banks NIL Charge 
2 Debit Cards HDFC or 
Other Banks 
Transaction up to 
Rs 2000/- 
 
    0 % 
Transaction above 
Rs 2000/-     0 % 
3 Credit Cards Domestic  Nil Charge 
International  Nil Charge 
4 Unified Payment Interface 
(UPI) Nil Charge 
 
 If Paying through HDFC Bank: 
 
 
 
 
Level Name   Email ID Contact Number 
1 Ecom Support Ecomsupport.delhi@hdfcbank.com  
2. Pradeep Yadav Pradeep.yadav10@hdfcbank.com 9625622301 
3    Vikram Singh Vikram.singh4@hdfcbank.com 9799810080
44  
 
SBI 
 
S. No Mode of Payment STATE BANK OF INDIA 
1 Net Banking  SBI  
Rs 5.00+GST Other Banks 
2 Debit Cards    
Nil 
3 Credit Cards 
 
Domestic 
 
 
0.80% + GST 
 
International 
 
3.50% of Fee+ GST 
(Minimum Rs 11/-) 
4 Unified Payment Interface 
(UPI) 
NIL Charge 
 
If Paying through State Bank of India (SBI): 
 
 
CANARA BANK 
Sr. No  Mode of Payment  CANARA BANK   
1 Net Banking 
Other Banks (Including Canara 
Bank) Rs.13 + GST  
HDFC, ICICI, SBI, AXIS Rs.17 + GST  
2 Debit Cards Visa/Master 
Transaction up to 
Rs.2000/- 
0.40% + GST 
 
Transaction above 
Rs.2000/- 
0.85% + GST 
 
Rupay NIL Charge  
3 Credit Cards Domestic 1.10% + GST  
4 Unified Payment 
Interface (UPI) NIL Charge 
 
 
 
If paying through Canara Bank: 
Level Name Email ID 
1 HelpDesk pgsupport@billdesk.com; dssrosdel@canarabank.com; 
tmcodel@canarabank.com; cb0268@canarabank.com;  
2 Complaint Management 
Services 
pgsupport@billdesk.com dssrosdel@canarabank.com; 
tmcodel@canarabank.com; cb0268@canarabank.com 
3 Customer Care pgsupport@billdesk.com dssrosdel@canarabank.com; 
tmcodel@canarabank.com; cb0268@canarabank.com 
4 ThroughSMS --- 
 
 
 
Level Name Email ID Contact Number 
1 Helpdesk3 sbi.00727@sbi.co.in 08026599990 
2 Customer Care  agmcustomer.Ihodel@sbi.co.in 1800112211 
4 Through SMS UNHAPPY (add text) 8008202020
45  
 
ICICI BANK 
 
S.No Mode of Payment ICICI BANK 
1 Net Banking  ICICI  NIL Charge 
Other Banks 4.00 + GST 
2 Debit Cards ICICI or 
Other Banks 
Transaction upto 
Rs 2000/- 
 
0 % 
Transaction above 
Rs 2000/- 
0.5 % + GST 
3 Credit Cards Domestic  0.40%of Transaction value 
International  2.35%of Transaction value 
4 
Unified Payment 
Interface 
(UPI) 
ICICI or other 
banks 
Transaction upto 
Rs 2000/- 
 
 0 % 
Transaction above 
Rs 2000/- 
0 % 
 + GST 
 
If Paying through ICICI Bank: 
Level Name Email ID Contact Number 
1 Customer support Helpline 
number 
 (9AM to 6PM) 
 pgsupport.ind@worldline.com 1800222884 
 (Pls select option 3) 
 
 
 
Note: In case, the fee payment status is not ‘OK’, or the Confirmation Page of the  Online 
Application is not generated after fee payment (completion of Step 3) the candidate is 
advised to contact the helpline number/email of the concerned Bank/Payment Gateway 
Integrator, as mentioned below:- 
 
(a) NTA Helpdesk Contact details (in case the payment -related issues are not 
resolved through the above-mentioned Helplines of the concerned Bank/Payment 
Gateway Integrator): 
 
Email: cuet-ug@nta.ac.in  
Phone No.: 011-40759000 
 
Procedure to raise payment-related Grievance:   
 
After (successful completion of Step 3, the Confirmation Page of the Application Form, 
should be downloaded and a printout of the same may be retained for future reference. 
The Confirmation Page of the online Application Form could be generated only after 
successful payment by the Candidate.  
In case the Confirmation Page is not generated after payment of the prescribed fee, then 
the candidate should approach the concerned Bank/Payment Gateway integrator (in the 
helpline number and email given above in the Information Bulletin), to ensure the 
successful payment.
46  
In spite of the above, if a successful transaction is not reflected on the Portal, the 
candidate may contact the NTA Helpline. If the payment issue is still not resolved, the 
candidate may pay a second time.  
However, any duplicate payment received from the candidate by NTA in the course of 
said transactions will be refunded through the same payment mode through which the 
duplicate payment is received, after fee reconciliation by NTA 
 
Information to be provided by the Candidate while raising any payment -related 
query/grievance through QRS/email/Helplines: - 
 
a. Name of the Bank and /or Payment Gateway. 
b. Date and time of the transaction 
c. Transaction Number 
d. Bank Reference Number   
e. Proof of transaction 
f. Screenshot from the payment portal (in case of payment failure).
47  
Appendix-V 
Computer Based Test (CBT) Guidelines  
 
The major examinations being conducted by NTA are Computer-Based Tests (CBT). A CBT 
requires candidates to sit in front of a computer terminal (node) allocated to them against 
their Roll number and Admit card. After logging the candidate will get detailed instructions 
for the examinations. At the designated time of the start of the examination, the candidates 
will be able to pro ceed and see the questions on the computer screen using the computer 
mouse. Candidates will have the option to change/modify/edit/answers already entered 
at any time during the examination. 
 
Procedure for appearing in Computer Based Test (CBT): 
 
(Sample/mock test will be available on the NTA website: www.nta.ac.in for hands-on 
practice) 
 
(a) A computer terminal (node) indicating the Roll Number will be allocated to each 
candidate. Candidates should find and sit on their allocated computers only. Any 
candidate found to have changed room/hall or the computer on their own other 
than the one allot ted would lead to cancellation of candidature and no plea in this 
regard would be entertained. 
(b) For login, the candidate will have to enter a login ID and password. The computer 
terminal allotted to the candidate will display the WELCOME login screen, the 
Candidate’s photograph, and the subject opted by the candidate. 
 
Candidate Login Page 
 
 
Candidate Welcome Screen
48  
(c) After login, the candidate shall be able to see the detailed instructions for the 
examination. Candidates are advised to go through the instructions carefully 
regarding the type of questions and marking scheme. At the designated time of the 
start of the examination, the candidates will be able to proceed and see the questions 
on the computer screen. 
 
Please read the instructions carefully 
General Instructions: 
1. The clock will be set on the server. The countdown timer in the top right corner of the 
screen will display the remaining time available for you to complete the examination. 
When the timer reaches zero, the examination will end by itself. You will not be 
required to end or submit your examination. 
2. The Question Palette displayed on the right side of the screen will show the status of 
each question using one of the following symbols:  
 
4. The ‘Marked for Review’ status for a question simply indicates that you would like 
to look at that question again. 
5. You can click on the ">" arrow which appears to the left of the question palette to 
collapse the question palette thereby maximizing the question window. To view the 
question palette again, you can click on "< " which appears on the right side of the 
question window. 
6. You can click on your "Profile" image on the top right corner of your screen to change 
the language during the exam for the entire question paper. On clicking on the Profile 
image, you will get a drop -down to change the question content to the desired 
language. 
7. You can click on to navigate to the bottom and to navigate to the top of the 
question area, without scrolling.
49  
Navigating to a Question:  
8. To answer a question, do the following:  
a. Click on the question number in the Question Palette at the right of your screen 
to go to that question directly. Note that using this option does NOT save your 
answer to the current question. 
b. Click on Save & Next to save your answer for the current question and then go 
to the next question. 
c. Click on Mark for Review & Next  to save your answer for the current 
question, mark it for review, and then go to the next question. 
Answering a Question :  
9. Procedure for answering a Multiple Choice Type question:  
 
a. To select your answer, click on the button of one of the options. 
b. To deselect your chosen answer, click on the button of the chosen option again 
or click on the Clear Response button. 
c. To change your chosen answer, click on the button of another option. 
d. To save your answer, you must click on the Save & Next button 
e. To mark the question for review, click on the ‘Mark for Review & Next' button. 
 
10. To change your answer to a question that has already been answered, first select that 
question for answering and then follow the procedure for answering that type of 
question. 
Navigating through sections: 
11. Sections in this question paper are displayed on the top bar of the screen. Questions 
in a section can be viewed by clicking on the Section name. The section you are 
currently viewing is highlighted. 
12. After clicking the Save and Next button on the last question for a Section, you will 
automatically be taken to the first question of the next section. 
13. You can shuffle between sections and questions anytime during the examination as 
per your convenience only during the time stipulated. 
14. The candidate can view the corresponding section summary as part of the legend 
that appears in every section above the question palette. 
Instruction for Question: 
15. For the correctness of the translation for a particular language, only the English 
version will be considered as the final version for evaluation purposes.
50  
The keyboard attached to the computer, if any, will be disabled during the entire duration 
of the examination. Depending on the type of question, the answers to questions can either 
be entered by clicking on the virtual on-screen keyboard (numeric or otherwise) using the 
computer mouse or by clicking the chosen option(s) using the computer mouse. Candidates 
will have the option to change/modify answers already ent ered at any  time during the 
entire duration of the examination. 
In case the computer/mouse allotted to any candidate malfunctions during the test, he/she 
will be immediately allotted another computer system and the time lost due to this will be 
adjusted in the server so as to give the candidate the full allotted time. 
The on-screen computer clock counter of every candidate will be set on the server. The 
countdown timer on the top right side of the computer screen will display the time 
remaining (in minutes) available for the candidate to complete the examination. When the 
timer reaches zero, the examination will end by itself. The candida tes will not be required 
to end or submit the examination. 
 
The Question Palette displayed on the screen will show the status of each question using 
one of the following symbols: 
 
 
The question(s) “Answered and Marked for Review” status for a question indicates that 
the candidates would like to have a relook at that question again. A candidate has the 
option of answering a question and simultaneously “Marked for Review”, these answer s 
will be considered for evaluation. However, if a candidate has simply put “Marked for 
Review” for a question without answering it, the corresponding question marked for 
review without an answer will not be considered for evaluation. It may be noted that a 
candidate can return to any “Marked for Review” question at any time during the 
examination by clicking on the corresponding question number icon displayed on the 
Question Palette of the corresponding section. 
(d)  The candidates can click on the “>” arrow which appears to the left of the question 
palette to collapse the question palette thereby maximizing the question viewing 
window. To view the question palette again, the candidate can click on “<” which 
appears on the right side of the question window.
51  
(e) Candidates can click to navigate to the bottom and to navigate to the top of the 
question area, without scrolling. Using the computer mouse the candidate can scroll 
up and down the question viewing area for viewing the entire question.  
(f) The full paper can be viewed by clicking the “Question Paper” icon on the top right 
corner of the screen.  
(g) Blank Sheets for doing Rough Work/calculations shall be provided to the candidates. 
The blank sheets would have a Header page for the candidates to write down his/her 
Name and Roll Number. All calculations/writing work is to be done only in the 
Blank Sheets provided at the Centre in the Examination Room/Hall and on 
completion of the test candidates must hand over the rough sheets to the invigilator 
on duty in the Room/Hall. 
(h) Navigating to a Question To navigate between questions within a Paper, the 
candidate needs to do the following:  
(a) Click on the question number in the Question Palette at the right of the 
screen to go to that numbered question directly. Note that using this option 
does NOT save the answer to the currently displayed question.  
(b) Click on “Save and Next” to save the answer to any question. Clicking on 
“Save and Next” will save the answer for the current question and the next 
question will be displayed on the candidate’s computer screen. 
(c) Click on “Mark for Review and Next” to mark a question for review (without 
answering it) and proceed to the next question. 
 
(i) Answering a Question 
To navigate between questions within a Paper, the candidate needs to do the following: 
Procedure for answering a Multiple-Choice type question: 
(a) To select the option(s), click on the corresponding button(s) of the 
option(s). 
(b) To deselect the chosen answer, click on the button of the chosen option 
again or click on the “Clear Response” button.
52  
(c) To save the answer, the candidate MUST click on the “Save and Next” 
button. 
(d) To mark the question for review (without answering it), click on the “Mark 
for Review and Next” button. 
 
(j) Navigating through sections: 
(i) Sections in the question paper are displayed on the top bar of the screen. 
Questions in a section can be viewed by clicking on the section name. The 
section in which the candidate is currently viewing will be highlighted. 
(ii) After clicking the “Save and Next” button on the last question for a 
section, the candidate will automatically be taken to the first question of 
the next section. 
(iii) Candidates can shuffle between sections and questions within sections 
anytime during the examination as per convenience only during the time 
stipulated. 
(iv) The candidate can view the corresponding section summary as part of the 
legend that appears in every section above the question palette. 
 
(k) Procedure for answering questions that require inputs from the on -screen 
virtual keyboard (numeric or otherwise): 
 
(a)  The candidate will have to use the on-screen virtual keyboard (that would 
be displayed just below the question statement of these types of questions) 
and the attached computer mouse to enter his/her answer in the space 
provided for the answer. 
 
 
On-Screen Virtual Keyboard 
 
 
 
(b) The answer can be changed, if required, anytime during the test. To save 
the answer, the candidate MUST click on the “Save and Next” button.
53  
(c) To mark the question for review (without answering it), click on the 
“Mark for Review and Next” button. 
 
 The candidates will have the option to change previously saved 
answers to any question, anytime during the entire duration of the test. 
To change the answer to a question that has already been answered, first 
select the corresponding question from the Question Palette, then click 
on “Clear Response” to clear the previously e ntered answer and 
subsequently follow the procedure for answering that type of question. 
 
(l) ROUGH WORK: 
All calculations/writing work is to be done only in the rough sheet provided at the 
Centre in the Examination Room/Hall and on completion of the test candidates 
must hand over the rough sheets to the invigilator on duty in the Room/Hall.
54  
Appendix - VI 
 
 
Procedure to be adopted for compilation of NTA scores for multiple shifts in CUET (UG) 2025 
(Normalization procedure based on Percentile and Equi percentile method) 
 
Need for Normalisation 
For several subjects, the CUET (UG) -2022 and CUET (UG) – 2023 were conducted in different 
shifts. Since the question paper s for any subject in different shifts are different and it is quite 
possible that despite all the best possible efforts of maintaining equivalence among various 
question papers, the difficulty level of these question papers administered in different sessions 
may not be the same or similar. Some of the candidates might have ended up attempting a 
relatively tougher set of questions when compared to other sets. The candidates who attempted 
the comparatively tougher examination are likely to get lower marks as compared to those who 
attempted the easier one; the scores of the students across shifts are not directly comparable. 
There is a need for normalizing the marks across shifts to make them amenable to such 
comparisons. 
A Committee headed by a Senior  Professor from the Indian  Statistical  Institution Delhi and 
comprising of Senior Professors from the Indian Institute of  Technology Delhi and the 
University of Delhi had detailed deliberations to arrive at the methodology. 
As already intimated in the Information Bulletin of CUET (UG) – 2022  CUET (UG) - 2023 and 
CUET (UG) – 2024, the raw score of each candidate in each subject will be normalized using the 
Equi-percentile method. This is done separately for each subject for which the examination is 
held in multiple shifts. 
For each subject for which the examination is held in multiple shifts, the raw score for each 
candidate appearing for the subject will be converted into NTA Score (Percentile Score & 
Normalized Score) in the following three steps: 
Step 1: Convert Raw Scores into Percentile Scores. 
The percentiles are calculated separately for each shift. 
1. Record the number of candidates who have appeared in a shift. Denote this  
number by N. 
2. Sort all the candidates in one shift in decreasing order of their marks. 
3. Note the raw marks for each candidate. Suppose this is denoted by T. Count the 
number of candidates in that shift whose raw scores are less than or equal to T. 
Denote this number by m. 
4. The percentile score for this candidate is then calculated as: 
P = 𝑚 ∗ 100 
𝑁
55  
Illustration: 
 
Suppose that the examination in a certain subject is held in two different shifts, S1 
and  S2,  say.  Consider six candidates  A , B, C, D, E, and F out of which  A, B, 
and C are from shift S1 and the other three are from shift S2. 
Let the  raw  marks  of  the  six  candidates  be  𝑥𝐴, 𝑥𝐵, 𝑥𝐶 (shift  S1  marks)  and 
𝑦𝐷, 𝑦E , 𝑦𝐹  (shift S2 marks). 
For candidates A, B, and C, the percentiles are calculated using the total marks 
obtained by candidates appearing in shift S1 (in the same subject) as explained  
above. 
Similarly, for candidates D, E, and F, the percentiles are calculated using the 
total marks obtained by candidates appearing in shift S2 (in the same subject) 
as explained above. 
Let the respective percentiles be denoted by PA, PB, PC, PD, PE, and PF. 
The above data is summarised  in the following table. The terms in red colour  
indicate that these are the output of this step. 
 
Shift S1 Shift S2 
Candidate Raw score Percentile Candidat
e 
Raw score Percentile 
A 
 
 PA D 
 
 PD 
B 
 
 PB E 
 
 PE 
C 
 
 PC F 
 
 PF 
 
Since the calculation for percentiles in any shift depends only on the data 
from that shift alone, there is a separate table for each shift. 
Step 2: Pull the percentiles to the marks scale for each session to get      Normalised 
Score. 
• The data across all sessions tabulated at the end of step 1 is 
collated into a single table. 
• The columns for the shift-wise raw score should be kept separate. 
• All the records are then sorted in decreasing order of the percentiles. 
 
Illustration (Continued): 
 
In the illustrative example given above, suppose that the 
percentiles of    the six candidates satisfy 
PE>PA>PC =PF>PB>PD
56  
Then the collated table would look as given below: 
 
Candidate Percentile RawscoreS1 RawScoreS2 
E PE – 
 
 
A PA 
 
 – 
C&F PC=P
F 
 
 
 
 
B PB 
 
 – 
D PD – 
 
 
 
Candidate C from shift S1 and candidate F from shift S2 have the same 
percentile. The relevant entries under “Raw Score S1” and “Raw Score S2” 
are the actual raw scores 𝑥𝐶 and 𝑦F respectively. This has the obvious 
interpretation that marks 𝑥𝐶 of shift S1 are equivalent to marks 𝑦𝐹 of shift 
S2. 
Candidates A and B, appearing in shift S1, have a blank entry in column 
“Raw Score S2”, as there is no corresponding candidate having exactly the 
same percentile from shift S2. Similarly, Candidates D and E, appearing in 
shift S2, have a blank entry in column “Raw Score S1”, as there is no 
corresponding candidate having exactly the same percentile from shift S1. 
• In the remaining part of this Step 2, the blank entries in the two “Raw 
Score” columns are filled up using linear interpolation. 
• Consider a record (row) whose entry in the column “Raw Score S1” is 
blank. The blank will be replaced by the interpolated score X which 
is calculated as: 
 
Where: 
- P is the corresponding entry in t h e  “Percentile” column 
- x1 is the first non-blank entry BELOW X. i.e., x1<X and 
there is no other non-blank entry in the column between x1 
and X. 
- x2 is the first non-blank entry ABOVE X. i.e., x2> X and 
there is no other non-blank entry in the column between 
x2 and X. 
- p1 is the entry in the “Percentile” column corresponding to x1 from 
the column “Raw Score S1”. 
- p2 is the entry in the “Percentile” column corresponding to x2 from 
the column “Raw Score S1”. 
Note that there may be several blank entries between x1 and x2. 
• All the blank entries in column “Raw Score S1” can now be 
replaced by the interpolated values. 
• The blank entries in column “Raw Score S2” are also replaced 
using a similar procedure.
57  
Illustration (Continued): 
The table in the illustrative example would look like the following, 
where the     entries in red indicate the additional output at the end of 
this step. 
Candidate Percentile Raw Score S1 Raw Score S2 
E PE XE 𝑦𝐸 
A PA 
 
 YA 
C&F PC=PF 
 
 𝑦𝐹 
B PB 
 
 YB 
D P
D 
XD 𝑦𝐷 
Step3: Calculation of the Normalised Score 
Now for each subject, there is a score assigned to each percentile value for  each 
session. The Normalised  score, Z,  corresponding to a percentile value  P, is 
calculated as: 
 
Where 𝑢𝐴, 𝑢𝐵, … … … . . 𝑢𝑡 denote the raw scores corresponding to  the  percentile  P  in 
each of the different sessions 
 
Illustration (Continued): 
 
The final table in the illustrative example would be as follows: 
 
 
 
Candidate 
 
Percentile 
Raw 
ScoreS1 
Raw 
ScoreS2 
Normalized 
Score 
E PE XE 𝑦𝐸 (XE + 𝑦𝐸)/2 
A PA 
 
 YA (𝑥𝐴 +YA)/2 
C&F PC=PF 
 
 𝑦𝐹 (𝑥𝐶 + 𝑦𝐹)/2 
B PB 
 
 YB (𝑥𝐵 +YB)/2 
D PD XD 𝑦𝐷 (XD + 𝑦𝐷)/2
58  
Step-by-Step Procedure for Converting from Raw Score to 
Normalized    Score: - 
Example: Suppose a test was held in 4 phases of examinees as per details 
given below: - 
(Allocation of Days and shifts were done randomly) 
 
Session Day Shift No of Candidates Raw Score 
Absent Appeared  Total Highest Lowest 
Session-1 Day-1 Shift-1 3974 28012 31986 200 -40 
Session-2 Day-1 Shift-2 6189 32541 38730 194 -36 
Session-3 Day-2 Shift-1 6036 41326 47362 188 -36 
Session-4 Day-2 Shift-2 9074 40603 49677 200 -40 
Total (Session-1 to Session-4) 25273 142482 167755 200 -40
59  
i. Highest Raw Score and Percentile Score: - 
 
 
Session Total 
Candidates 
Appeared 
Highest 
Raw 
Score 
Candidates 
who scored 
EQUAL OR 
LESS THAN 
Highest Raw 
Score 
Percentile Score Remarks 
    100.0000000 i.e., All the 
highest raw 
scores would 
be 
normalized to 
100 Percentile 
Score for 
their 
respective 
session. 
Session-1 28012 200 28012 [(28012/28012)  *100] 
    100.0000000 
Session-2 32541 194 32541 [(32541/32541)  *100] 
    100.0000000 
Session-3 41326 188 41326 [(41326/41326)  *100] 
    100.0000000 
Session-4 40603 200 40603 [(40603/40603)  *100] 
 
 
ii. Lowest Score and Percentile Score: - 
 
Session Total 
Candidates 
Appeared 
Lowest 
Raw 
Score 
Candidates 
who scored 
EQUAL OR 
LESS THAN 
Highest Raw 
Score 
Percentile 
Score 
Remarks 
    0.0035699  
i.e., the Percentile 
Score of all the lowest 
raw scores are 
different i.e., Percentile 
Score depends on the 
total number of 
candidates who have 
taken the examination 
for their respective 
session. 
    [(1/28012) 
Session-1 28012 -40 1 *100] 
    0.0030730 
    [(1/32541) 
Session-2 32541 -36 1 *100] 
    0.0024198 
    [(1/41326) 
Session-3 41326 -36 1 *100] 
    0.0024629 
    [(1/40603) 
Session-4 40603 -40 1 *100] 
 
 
Step1: Convert Raw Score into Percentile Score 
The percentile score for this candidate is then calculated as: 
𝑁𝑜. 𝑜𝑓 𝐶𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠 𝑎𝑝𝑝𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 𝑓𝑟𝑜𝑚 𝑡ℎ𝑒 𝑠𝑒𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 
𝑃𝑒𝑟𝑐𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑙𝑒 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒 = 100 x 𝑤𝑖𝑡ℎ 𝑟𝑎𝑤 𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒 𝐸𝑄𝑈𝐴𝐿 𝑇𝑂 𝑂𝑅 𝐿𝐸𝑆𝑆 𝑡ℎ𝑎𝑛 𝑇 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒 
Total No. of Candidates wh o appeared in the session
60  
 
Candidate 
Raw 
Score S1 
Percentile 
Score 
  
Candidate 
Raw 
Score 
S2 
Percentil
e Score 
A20020720 200 100 B20123935 194 100 
A20411664 192 99.969144 B20012622 192 99.9990405 
A20018569 190 99.831255 B20656224 100 96.9671093 
A20339879 184 99.732901 B20410215 42 69.2904047 
A20074407 180 99.432054 B20236444 26 67.7672549 
A20751862 88 88.654575 B20128586 14 46.3751151 
A20922992 48 74.137715 B20001667 4 27.0887703 
A21004667 40 69.290405 B20042147 2 23.9100399 
A21141123 22 52.135343 B20051256 0 12.225608 
A25465232 8 30.675846 B20481968 -2 11.6211621 
A26545946 6 27.584445 B20091701 -12 10.4982563 
A25656543 2 24.886459 B20549576 -14 10.3947421 
A26625216 1 22.351432 B20098269 -30 10.2430506 
A26174451 0 19.997686 B20071356 -36 0.053034 
A25463225 -1 15.23523  
A26598636 -6 11.104361 
A26596462 -40 0.053034 
 
 
 
Candidate 
Raw 
Score 
S3 
Percentil
e Score 
  
Candidate 
Raw Score S4 Percentile 
Score 
C20150694 188 100 D20479616 200 100 
C20087997 186 99.969144 D20040337 194 99.9990405 
C20121991 184 99.831255 D20467385 98 88.6545749 
C20058572 180 99.732901 D20398094 44 68.9660903 
C20060310 172 99.432054 D20428934 40 49.5097099 
C20008597 56 78.338974 D20032939 32 46.3751151 
C20430859 36 69.00182 D20690279 30 27.0887703 
C20518247 20 52.135343 D20840699 28 23.9100399 
C20045510 14 38.091932 D20084751 26 20.8800276 
C20860609 9 30.675846 D21237483 24 12.1887008 
C20861476 5 27.584445 D21077463 1 11.5349248 
C20512680 3 24.886459 D20348188 -2 11.0243302 
C20069270 2 22.351432 D25463225 -40 0.053034 
C20355550 0 12.188701  
C20549576 -3 11.23523 
C26598636 -22 0.0539983 
C26596462 -36 0.053034
61  
Step 2: Pull Back the percentiles to the scale of the marks for each session to get    Normalized 
marks. 
 
Candidate 
Percentile 
Score 
Raw 
Score S1 
Raw 
Score S2 
Raw 
Score S3 
Raw 
Score S4 
A20020720=B20123935=C20150694=D204
79616 
100 200 194 188 200 
B20012622=D20040337 99.99904053 - 192 - 194 
A20411664=C20087997 99.9691438 192 - 186 - 
A20018569=C20121991 99.8312554 190 - 184 - 
A20339879=C20058572 99.7329013 184 - 180 - 
A20074407=C20060310 99.4320538 180 - 172 - 
B20656224 96.9671093 - 100 - - 
A20751862=D20467385 88.6545749 88 - - 98 
C20008597 78.3389742 - - 56 - 
A20922992 74.1377149 48 - - - 
A21004667=B20410215 69.2904047 40 42 -  
C20430859 69.0018201 - - 36 - 
D20398094 68.9660903 - - - 44 
B20236444 67.7672549 - 26 - - 
A21141123=C20518247 52.1353428 22 - 20 - 
D20428934 49.50970986 - - - 40 
B20128586=D20032939 46.37511514 - 14 - 32 
C20045510 38.0919321 - - 14 - 
A25465232=C20860609 30.6758464 8 - 9 - 
A26545946=C20861476 27.5844446 6 - 5 - 
B20001667=D20690279 27.08877034 - 4 - 30 
A25656543=C20512680 24.886459 2 - 3 - 
B20042147=D20840699 23.91003991 - 2 - 28 
A26625216=C20069270 22.3514324 1 - 2 - 
D20084751 20.88002763 - - - 26 
A26174451 19.9976858 0 - - - 
A25463225 15.23523 -1 - - - 
B20051256 12.225608 - 0 - - 
C20355550=D21237483 12.1887008 - - 0 24 
B20481968 11.62116211 - -2 - - 
D21077463 11.53492478 - - - 1 
C20549576 11.23523 - - -3 - 
A26598636 11.1043613 -6 - - - 
D20348188 11.0243302 - - - -2 
B20091701 10.49825625 - -12 - - 
B20549576 10.39474209 - -14 - - 
B20098269 10.2430506 - -30 - - 
C26598636 0.0539983 - - -22 - 
A26596462=B20071356=C26596462=D254
63225 
0.053034 40 -36 -36 -40
62  
In the remaining part of Step 2, the blank entries in the Raw Score Columns          are filled up 
using following linear interpolation Formulae:  
 
 
 
Candidate Percentile Score Raw Score S1 Raw Score 
S2 Raw Score S3 Raw Score S4 
A20020720=B20123935=C20150694=D20479616 100 200 194 188 200 
B20012622=D20040337 99.9990405 199.7512409 192 187.93781 194 
A20411664=C20087997 99.9691438 192 171.96504 186 171.96504 
A20018569=C20121991 99.8312554 190 167.63275 184 167.63275 
A20339879=C20058572 99.7329013 184 164.54257 180 164.54257 
A20074407=C20060310 99.4320538 180 155.09028 172 155.09028 
B20656224 96.9671093 158.958447 100 158.4442 101.91063 
A20751862=D20467385 88.6545749 88 82.580043 112.72997 98 
C20008597 78.3389742 56.7810489 60.96241 56 69.707196 
A20922992 74.1377149 48 52.158146 47.207694 58.184318 
A21004667=B20410215 69.2904047 40 42 36.629757 44.889504 
C20430859 69.0018201 39.6972017 38.968549 36 44.097997 
D20398094 68.9660903 39.6597121 38.593224 35.966106 44 
B20236444 67.7672549 38.4018305 26 34.828858 43.753534 
A21141123=C20518247 52.1353428 22 17.231221 20 40.539799 
D20428934 49.5097099 20.1081761 15.758363 18.878207 40 
B20128586=D20032939 46.3751151 17.8496346 14 17.538962 32 
C20045510 38.0919321 11.8814266 9.7051566 14 31.141031 
A25465232=C20860609 30.6758464 8 5.8599046 9 30.371981 
A26545946=C20861476 27.5844446 6 4.2570079 5 30.051402 
B20001667=D20690279 27.0887703 5.2651195 4 4.6325597 30 
A25656543=C20512680 24.886459 2 2.6143453 3 28.614345 
B20042147=D20840699 23.9100399 1.6148289 2 2.6148289 28 
A26625216=C20069270 22.3514324 1 1.7332164 2 26.97122 
D20084751 20.8800276 0.374867 1.4813591 1.7104312 26 
A26174451 19.9976858 0 1.3303305 1.5367886 25.79696 
A25463225 15.23523 -1 0.5151508 0.5995493 24.70105 
B20051256 12.225608 -4.6428439 0 0.0072632 24.008493 
C20355550=D21237483 12.1887008 -4.6875164 -0.122119 0 24 
B20481968 11.6211621 -5.3744647 -2 -1.785703 4.0338503 
D21077463 11.5349248 -5.4788463 -2.767984 -2.057041 1 
C20549576 11.23523 -5.8415966 -5.436905 -3 -0.760858 
A26598636 11.1043613 -6 -6.602352 -3.222382 -1.529777 
D20348188 11.0243302 -6.24622 -7.315066 -3.358377 -2 
B20091701 10.4982563 -7.8647146 -12 -4.252322 -3.822101 
B20549576 10.3947421 -8.1831815 -14 -4.428221 -4.180631 
B20098269 10.2430506 -8.6498685 -30 -4.685987 -4.706027 
C26598636 0.0539983 -39.9970333 -35.99943 -22 -39.99666 
A26596462=B20071356=C26596462=D25463225 0.053034 -40 -36 -36 -40
63  
Step 3: Calculation of Normalized Score: Now for each subject there is a score assigned to each 
percentile value for each session. The Normalised score, Z, corresponding to a percentile value P, 
is calculated as Z= Average of (𝑢𝐴, 𝑢𝐶,………..𝑢𝑡)= 𝑢𝐴 +  𝑢𝐵 +  𝑢𝐶 +,…..+  𝑢𝑡/ t  
Where 𝑢𝐴, 𝑢𝐶,………..𝑢𝑡 denote the raw scores corresponding to the percentile P in each of the different 
sessions  
 
 
Candidate 
Percentile 
Score Raw Score S1 Raw Score 
S2 
Raw Score 
S3 
Raw Score 
S4 
Normalised 
Marks 
A20020720=B20123935=C20150694=D20479616 100 200 194 188 200 195.5 
B20012622=D20040337 99.999041 199.7512409 192 187.9378 194 193.4223 
A20411664=C20087997 99.969144 192 171.965 186 171.965 180.4825 
A20018569=C20121991 99.831255 190 167.6327 184 167.6327 177.3164 
A20339879=C20058572 99.732901 184 164.5426 180 164.5426 173.2713 
A20074407=C20060310 99.432054 180 155.0903 172 155.0903 165.5451 
B20656224 96.967109 158.958447 100 158.4442 101.9106 129.8283 
A20751862=D20467385 88.654575 88 82.58004 112.73 98 95.3275 
C20008597 78.338974 56.7810489 60.96241 56 69.7072 60.86266 
A20922992 74.137715 48 52.15815 47.20769 58.18432 51.38754 
A21004667=B20410215 69.290405 40 42 36.62976 44.8895 40.87982 
C20430859 69.00182 39.6972017 38.96855 36 44.098 39.69094 
D20398094 68.96609 39.6597121 38.59322 35.96611 44 39.55476 
B20236444 67.767255 38.4018305 26 34.82886 43.75353 35.74606 
A21141123=C20518247 52.135343 22 17.23122 20 40.5398 24.94276 
D20428934 49.50971 20.1081761 15.75836 18.87821 40 23.68619 
B20128586=D20032939 46.375115 17.8496346 14 17.53896 32 20.34715 
C20045510 38.091932 11.8814266 9.705157 14 31.14103 16.6819 
A25465232=C20860609 30.675846 8 5.859905 9 30.37198 13.30797 
A26545946=C20861476 27.584445 6 4.257008 5 30.0514 11.3271 
B20001667=D20690279 27.08877 5.2651195 4 4.63256 30 10.97442 
A25656543=C20512680 24.886459 2 2.614345 3 28.61435 9.057173 
B20042147=D20840699 23.91004 1.6148289 2 2.614829 28 8.557414 
A26625216=C20069270 22.351432 1 1.733216 2 26.97122 7.926109 
D20084751 20.880028 0.374867 1.481359 1.710431 26 7.391664 
A26174451 19.997686 0 1.330331 1.536789 25.79696 7.16602 
A25463225 15.23523 -1 0.515151 0.599549 24.70105 6.203938 
B20051256 12.225608 -4.6428439 0 0.007263 24.00849 4.843228 
C20355550=D21237483 12.188701 -4.6875164 -0.12212 0 24 4.797591 
B20481968 11.621162 -5.3744647 -2 -1.7857 4.03385 -1.28158 
D21077463 11.534925 -5.4788463 -2.76798 -2.05704 1 -2.32597 
C20549576 11.23523 -5.8415966 -5.43691 -3 -0.76086 -3.75984 
A26598636 11.104361 -6 -6.60235 -3.22238 -1.52978 -4.33863 
D20348188 11.02433 -6.24622 -7.31507 -3.35838 -2 -4.72992 
B20091701 10.498256 -7.8647146 -12 -4.25232 -3.8221 -6.98478 
B20549576 10.394742 -8.1831815 -14 -4.42822 -4.18063 -7.69801 
B20098269 10.243051 -8.6498685 -30 -4.68599 -4.70603 -12.0105 
C26598636 0.0539983 -39.9970333 -35.9994 -22 -39.9967 -34.4983 
A26596462=B20071356=C26596462=D25463225 0.053034 -40 -36 -36 -40 -38 
The above method is based on the work: “Normalization of marks in multi-session 
examinations”, Abhay G. Bhatt et al, CURRENT SCIENCE, Vol. 118, No. 1, 10 
January    2020.
64  
 
 Appendix VII
65
66
67  
Appendix VIII 
 
(Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt. of India F. No. 29-6/2019-DD-III dated 
10 August 2022) 
  Certificate for person with specified disability covered under the definition of Section 2 (s) 
of the RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the definition of Section 2(r) of the said Act, 
i.e. persons having less than 40% disability and having difficulty in writing  
 This is to certify that, we have examined Mr/Ms/Mrs …………. (Name of the candidate), 
S/o /D/o ……………………, a resident of ……………… (Vill/PO/ PS/ District/ State), 
aged …………….. yrs, a person with ……………………. (nature of disability/condition), and 
to state that he/ sh e has limitation which hampers his/her writing capability owing to 
his/her above condition. He/she requires support of scribe for writing the examination.   
 
2. The above candidate uses aids and assistive device such as prosthetics & orthotics, 
hearing aid (name to be specified) which is /are essential for the candidate to appear at the 
examination with the assistance of scribe.   
3. This certificate is issued only for the purpose of appearing in written examinations 
conducted by recruitment agencies as well as academic institutions and is valid upto 
__________ (it is valid for maximum period of six months or less as may be certified b y the 
medical authority)  
 
 Signature of medical authority  
(Signature  
& Name)  
(Signature & Name)  (Signature  
& Name)  
(Signature &  
Name)  
(Signature  & 
Name)  
Orthopedic 
/  
PMR  
specialist  
Clinical  Psychologist/ 
Rehabilitation  
Psychologist/Psychiatrist 
/ Special Educator  
Neurologist 
(if 
available)  
   
Occupational 
therapist  (if 
available)  
Other Expert, 
 as 
nominated by 
 the  
Chairperson (if 
any)  
(Signature & Name)  
Chief  Medical  Officer/Civil  Surgeon/Chief  District  Medical  
Officer………Chairperson  
   
 Name of Government Hospital/Health Care Centre with Seal   
Place:  
Date:
68  
Appendix IX 
 
LETTER OF UNDERTAKING FOR USING OWN SCRIBE 
 
   
   I ____________________, a candidate with __________________ (nature of the disability) 
appearing for ______________________________________(name of the examination) bearing 
Roll No. ___________________________ at _______________________ (name of the centre) in 
the District ____________________, ____________________________ (name of the State). My 
educational qualification is _____________________.  
   
2. I do hereby state that __________________________ (name of the scribe) will provide 
the service of scribe /reader / lab assistant for the undersigned for taking the 
aforementioned examination.  
   
3. I do hereby undertake that his qualification is ______________________. In case, 
subsequently it is found that his qualification is not as declared by the undersigned and is 
beyond my qualification. I shall forfeit my right to the post and claims relating thereto.  
   
   
(Signature of the candidate)  
   
(counter signature by the parent/guardian, if the candidate is minor)  
   
   
Place:  
   
Date:
69  
Appendix X 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common University Entrance Test 
CUET (UG) - 2025 
Replica of  the Online Application Form
70 
 
Step 1: Login page for new candidates and already existing candidates. 
 
Step 2: Instruction page for filling the application form.
71
72 
 
Step 3: Personal details page of the application form
73 
 
Step 4: Review page of the online registration form
74 
 
 
Step 5: SMS authentication page of the online application form
75 
 
Step 6: Generation of the application number and proceeding further for the completing 
the application form.  
 
 
Step 7: Application status page with the summary of completed and pending parts of the 
application form.
76 
 
Step 8: Personal credentials page in the application form
77 
 
Step 9: Mode of Identity verification page of the candidate application form  
 
Step 10: Entering the APAAR ID of the candidate
78 
 
Step 11: Examination center and question paper medium details page of the 
application form.
79 
 
 
Step 12: Entering the qualification details of the candidate
80 
 
 
Step 13: Entering Additional Details pertaining to twin status and previous CUET (UG) 2025 
examinations  
 
Step 14: Entering the Emergency Contact Details of the parents or guardians
81 
 
Step 15: Authentication of the emergency details (Mobile Number and Email) 
 
 Step 16: Uploading of the necessary documents by the candidate
82 
 
Step 17: Review page of the online application form
83
84 
 
Step 18: Current Status of the application form 
 
 
 
Step 19: Authentication of the registered e-mail ID
85 
 
Step 20: Current Status of the application form  
 
 
Step 21: Fee payment by the candidate.
86 
 
Step 22: Confirmation Page
87
𝐀𝐝𝐝𝐫𝐞𝐬𝐬 𝐟𝐨𝐫 𝐂𝐨𝐫𝐫𝐞𝐬𝐩𝐨𝐧𝐝𝐞𝐧𝐜𝐞 
 
𝐅𝐢𝐫𝐬𝐭 𝐅𝐥𝐨𝐨𝐫, 𝐍𝐒𝐈𝐂 -𝐌𝐃𝐁𝐏 𝐁𝐮𝐢𝐥𝐝𝐢𝐧𝐠, 
𝐎𝐤𝐡𝐥𝐚 𝐈𝐧𝐝𝐮𝐬𝐭𝐫𝐢𝐚𝐥 𝐄𝐬𝐭𝐚𝐭𝐞,  
𝐍𝐞𝐰 𝐃𝐞𝐥𝐡𝐢 – 𝟏𝟏𝟎𝟎𝟐𝟎 
 
𝐇𝐞𝐥𝐩 𝐋𝐢𝐧𝐞:   011-40759000 
 
𝐅𝐨𝐫 𝐓𝐞𝐜𝐡𝐧𝐢𝐜𝐚𝐥 𝐬𝐮𝐩𝐩𝐨𝐫𝐭, 𝐜𝐨𝐧𝐭𝐚𝐜𝐭 𝐟𝐨𝐥𝐥𝐨𝐰𝐢𝐧𝐠 
𝐝𝐮𝐫𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐰𝐨𝐫𝐤𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐝𝐚𝐲𝐬 𝐛𝐞𝐭𝐰𝐞𝐞𝐧  
𝟏𝟎.𝟎𝟎 𝐚.𝐦. 𝐭𝐨 𝟓.𝟎𝟎 𝐩.𝐦
